A pity beyond all telling
Is hid in the heart of love:
The folk who are buying and selling;
The clouds on their journey above;
The cold wet winds ever blowing;
And the shadowy hazel grove
Where mouse-grey waters are flowing
Threaten the head that I love.
#
Rose of all Roses, Rose of all the world!
The tall thought-woven sails, that flap unfurled
Above the tide of hours, throuble the air,
And God's bell buoyed to be the water's care
While hushed from fear, or loud with hope, a band
With blown, spray-dabbled hair gather at hand.
Turn if you may from battles never done,
I call, as they go by me one by one,
Danger no refuge holds, and war no peace,
For him who hears love sing and never cease,
Beside her clean-swept hearth, her quiet shade:
But gather all for whom no love hath made
A woven silence, or but came to cast
A song into the air, and singing past
To smile on the pale dawn; and gather you*
Who have sought more than is in rain or dew
Or in the sun and moon, or on the earth,
Or sighs amid the wandering, starry mirth,
Or comes in laughter from the sea's sad lips;
And wage God's battles in the long gray ships.
The sad, the lonely, the insatiable,
To these Old Night shall all her mystery tell;
God's bell has claimed them by the little cry
Of their hearts, that may not live nor die.
Rose of all Roses, Rose of all the World!
You, too, have come where the dim tides are hurled
Upon the wharves of sorrow, and heard ring
The bell that calls us on; the sweet far thing.
Beauty grown sad with its eternity
Made you of us, and of the dim gray sea.
Our long ships loose thought-woven sails and wait,
For God has bid them share an equal fate;
And when at last defeated in His wars,
They have gone down under the same white stars,
We shall no longer hear the little cry
Of our sad hearts, that may not live nor die.
#
When you are old and gray and full of sleep,
And nodding by the fire, take down this book,
And slowly read, and dream of the soft look
Your eyes had once and of their shadows deep;
How many loved your moments of glad grace,
And loved your beauty with love false or true;
But one man loved the pilgrim soul in you,
And loved the sorrows of your changing face.
And bending down beside the glowing bars
Murmus, a little sadly, how love fled
And paced upon the mountains overhead
And hid his face amid a crowd of stars.
#
Who dreamed that beauty passes like a dream?
For these red lips, with all their mournful pride,
Mournful that no new wonder may betide,
Troy passed away in one high funeral gleam,
And Usna's children died.
We and the labouring world are passing by:
Amid men's souls, that waver and give place
Like the pale waters in their wintry race,
Under the passing stars, foam of the sky,
Lives on this lonely face.
Bow down, archangels, in your dim abode:
Before you were, or any hearts to beat,
Weary and kind one lingered by His seat;
He made the world to be a grassy road
Before her wandering feet.
#
All things uncomely and broken, all things worn and old,
The cry of a child by the roadway, the creak of a lumbering cart,
The heavy steps of the ploughman, splashing the wintry mould,
Are wronging your image that blossoms a rose in the deeps of my heart.
The wrong of unshapely things is a wrong too great to be told;
I hunger to build them anew and sit on a green knoll apart,
With the earth and the sky and the water, remade, like a casket of gold
For my dreams of your image that blossoms a rose in the deeps of my heart.
Pale brows, still hands and dim hair,
I had a beautiful friend
And dreamed that the old despair
Would end in love in the end:
She looked in my heart one day
And saw your image was there;
She has gone weeping away.
Do you not hear me calling, white deer with no horns!
I have been changed to a hound with one red ear;
I have been in the Path of Stones and the Wood of Thorns,
For somebody hid hatred and hope and desire and fear
Under my feet that they follow you night and day.
A man with a hazel wand came without sound;
He changed me suddenly; I was looking another way;
And now my calling is but the calling of a hound;
And Time and Birth and Change are hurrying by.
I would that the Boar without bristles had come from the West
And had rooted the sun and moon and stars out of the sky
And lay in the darkness, grunting, and turning to his rest.
I dreamed that I stood in a valley, and amid sighs,
For happy lovers passed two by two where I stood;
And I dreamed my lost love came stealthily out of the wood
With her cloud-pale eyelids falling on dream-dimmed eyes:
I cried in my dream, O women, bid the young men lay
Their heads on your knees, and drown their eyes with your hair,
Or remembering hers they will find no other face fair
Till all the valleys of the world have been withered away.
When my arms wrap you round I press
My heart upon the loveliness
That has long faded from the world;
The jewelled crowns that kings have hurled
In shadowy pools, when armies fled;
The love-tales wrought with silken thread
By dreaming ladies upon cloth
That has made fat the murderous moth;
The roses that of old time were
Woven by ladies in their hair.
The dew-cold lilies ladies bore
Through many a sacred corridor
Where such gray clouds of incense rose
That only the gods' eyes did not close:
For that pale breast and lingering hand
Come from a more dream-heavy land,
A more dream-heavy hour than this;
And when you sigh from kiss to kiss
I hear white Beauty sighing, too,
For hours when all must fade like dew,
All but the flames, and deep on deep.
Throne over throne where in half sleep.
Their swords upon their iron knees,
Brood her high lonely mysteries.
I hear the Shadowy Horses, their long manes a-shake,
Their hoofs heavy with tumult, their eyes glimmering white;
The North unfolds above them clinging, creeping night,
The East her hidden joy before the morning break,
The West weeps in pale dew and sighs passing away,
The South is pouring down roses of crimson fire:
O vanity of Sleep, Hope, Dream, endless Desire,
The Horses of Disaster plunge in the heavy clay:
Beloved, let your eyes half close, and your heart beat
Over my heart, and your hair fall over my breast,
Drowning love's lonely hour in deep twilight of rest,
And hiding their tossing manes and their tumultuous feet.
Fasten your hair with a golden pin,
And bind up every wandering tress;
I bade my heart build these poor rhymes:
It worked at them, day out, day in,
Building a sorrowful loveliness
Out of the battles of old times.
You need but lift a pearl-pale hand,
And bind up your long hair and sigh;
And all men's hearts must burn and beat;
And candle-like foam on the dim sand,
And stars climbing the dew-dropping sky,
Live but to light your passing feet.
O cloud-pale eyelids, dream-dimmed eyes,
The poets labouring all their days
To build a perfect beauty in rhyme
Are overthrown by a woman's gaze
And by the unlabouring brood of the skies:
And therefore my heart will bow, when dew
Is dropping sleep, until God burn time,
Before the unlabouring stars and you.
O, curlew, cry no more in the air,
Or only to the waters in the West;
Because your crying brings to my mind
Passion-dimmed eyes and long heavy hair
That was shaken out over my breast:
There is enough evil in the crying of wind.
When the flaming lute-thronged angelic door is wide;
When an immortal passion breathes in mortal clay;
Our hearts endure the scourge, the plaited thorns, the way
Crowded with bitter faces, the wounds in palm and side,
The hyssop-heavy sponge, the flowers by Kidron stream.
We will bend down and loosen our hair over you,
That it may drop faint perfume, and be heavy with dew,
Lilies of death-pale hope, roses of passionate dream.
If this importunate heart trouble your peace
With words lighter than air,
Or hopes that in mere hoping flicker and cease;
Crumple the rose in your hair;
And cover your lips with odorous twilight and say,
'0 hearts of wind-blown flame!
O Winds, elder than changing of night and day,
That murmuring and longing came
From marble cities loud with tabors of old
In dove-gray faery lands;
From battle banners, fold upon purple fold,
Queens wrought with glimmering hands;
That saw young Niamh hover with love-lorn face
Above the wandering tide;
And lingered in the hidden desolate place
Where the last Phoenix died,
And wrapped the flames above his holy head;
And still murmur and long:
O Piteous Hearts, changing till change be dead
In a tumultuous song:'
And cover the pale blossoms of your breast
With your dim heavy hair.
And trouble with a sigh for all things longing for rest
The odorous twilight there.
Though you are in your shining days,
Voices among the crowd
And new friends busy with your praise,
Be not unkind or proud,
But think about old friends the most:
Time's bitter flood will rise,
Your beauty perish and be lost
For all eyes but these eyes.
Were you but lying cold and dead,
And lights were paling out of the West,
You would come hither, and bend your head,
And I would lay my head on your breast;
And you would murmur tender words,
Forgiving me, because you were dead:
Nor would you rise and hasten away,
Though you have the will of the wild birds,
But know your hair was bound and wound
Above the stars and moon and sun:
O would, beloved, that you lay
Under the dock-leaves in the ground,
While lights were paling one by one.
I bring you with reverent hands
The books of my numberless dreams;
White woman that passion has worn
As the tide wears the dove-gray sands,
And with heart more old than the horn
That is brimmed from the pale fire of time:
White woman with numberless dreams
I bring you my passionate rhyme.
Had I the heavens' embroidered cloths,
Enwrought with golden and silver light,
The blue and the dim and the dark cloths
Of night and light and the half light,
I would spread the cloths under your feet:
But I, being poor, have only my dreams;
I have spread my dreams under your feet;
Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.
#
We sat together at one summer's end,
That beautiful mild woman, your close friend,
And you and I, and talked of poetry.
I said: 'A line will take us hours maybe;
Yet if it does not seem a moment's thought,
Our stitching and unstitching has been naught.
Better go down upon your marrow-bones
And scrub a kitchen pavement, or break stones
Like an old pauper, in all kinds of weather;
For to articulate sweet sounds together
Is to work harder than all these, and yet
Be thought an idler by the noisy set
Of bankers, schoolmasters, and clergymen
The martyrs call the world.'
That woman then
Murmured with her young voice, for whose mild sake
There's many a one shall find out all heartache
In finding that it's young and mild and low:
'There is one thing that all we women know,
Although we never heard of it at school-
That we must labour to be beautiful.'
I said: 'It's certain there is no fine thing
Since Adam's fall but needs much labouring.
There have been lovers who thought love should be
So much compounded of high courtesy
That they would sigh and quote with learned looks
Precedents out of beautiful old books;
Yet now it seems an idle trade enough.'
We sat grown quiet at the name of love;
We saw the last embers of daylight die,
And in the trembling blue-green of the sky
A moon, worn as if it had been a shell
Washed by time's waters as they rose and fell
About the stars and broke in days and years.
I had a thought for no one's but your ears;
That you were beautiful, and that I strove
To love you in the old high way of love;
That it had all seemed happy, and yet we'd grown
As weary-hearted as that hollow moon.
#
One that is ever kind said yesterday:
'Your well-beloved's hair has threads of grey,
And little shadows come about her eyes;
Time can but make it easier to be wise,
Though now it's hard, till trouble is at an end;
And so be patient, be wise and patient, friend.'
But, heart, there is no comfort, not a grain;
Time can but make her beauty over again.
Because of that great nobleness of hers
The fire that stirs about her when she stirs
Burns but more clearly. O she had not these ways,
When all the wild summer was in her gaze.
O heart ! O heart ! if she'd but turn her head,
You'd know the folly of being comforted.
#
Thought fly to her when the end of day
Awakens an old memory, and say,
'Your strength, that is so lofty and fierce and kind,
It might call up a new age, calling to mind
The queens that were imagined long ago,
Is but half yours: he kneaded in the dough
Through the long years of youth, and who would have thought
It all, and more than it all, would come to naught,
And that dear words meant nothing?' But enough,
For when we have blamed the wind we can blame love;
Or, if there needs be more, be nothing said
That would be harsh for children that have strayed.
#
I have no happiness in dreaming of Brycelinde,
Nor Avalon the grass-green hollow, nor Joyous Isle,
Where one found Lancelot crazed and hid him for a while;
Nor Ulad, when Naoise had thrown a sail upon the wind,
Nor lands that seem too dim to be burdens on the heart;
Land-under-Wave, where out of the moon's light and the sun's
Seven old sisters wind the threads of the long-lived ones;
Land-of-the-Tower, where Aengus has thrown the gates apart,
And Wood-of-Wonders, where one kills an ox at dawn,
To find it when night falls laid on a golden bier:
Therein are many queens like Branwen and Guinivere;
And Niamh and Laban and Fand, who could change to an otter or fawn,
And the wood-woman, whose lover was changed to a blue-eyed hawk;
And whether I go in my dreams by woodland, or dun, or shore,
Or on the unpeopled waves with kings to pull at the oar,
I hear the harp-string praise them, or hear their mournful talk.
Because of a story I heard under the thin horn
Of the third moon, that hung between the night and the day,
To dream of women whose beauty was folded in dismay.
Even in an old story, is a burden not to be borne.
#
I hardly hear the curlew cry,
Nor the grey rush when wind is high,
Before my thoughts begin to run
On the heir of Ulad, Buan's son,
Baile who had the honey mouth,
And that mild woman of the south,
Aillinn, who was King Lugaid's heir.
Their love was never drowned in care
Of this or that thing, nor grew cold
Because their bodies had grown old;
Being forbid to marry on earth
They blossomed to immortal mirth.
About the time when Christ was born,
When the long wars for the White Horn
And the Brown Bull had not yet come,
Young Baile Honey-Mouth, whom some
Called rather Baile Little-Land,
Rode out of Emain with a band
Of harpers and young men, and they
Imagined, as they struck the way
To many pastured Muirthemne,
That all things fell out happily
And there, for all that fools had said,
Baile and Aillinn would be wed.
They found an old man running there,
He had ragged long grass-yellow hair;
He had knees that stuck out of his hose;
He had puddle water in his shoes;
He had half a cloak to keep him dry;
Although he had a squirrel's eye.
O wandering birds and rushy beds,
You put such folly in our heads
With all this crying in the wind
No common love is to our mind,
And our poor Kate or Nan is less
Than any whose unhappiness
Awoke the harp strings long ago.
Yet they that know all things but know
That all life had to give us is
A child's laughter, a woman s kiss.
Who was it put so great a scorn
In the grey reeds that night and morn
Are trodden and broken by the herds,
And in the light bodies of birds
That north wind tumbles to and fro
And pinches among hail and snow?
That runner said 'I am from the south;
I run to Baile Honey-Mouth
To tell him how the girl Aillinn
Rode from the country of her kin
And old and young men rode with her:
For all that country had been astir
If anybody half as fair
Had chosen a husband anywhere
But where it could see her every day.
When they had ridden a little way
An old man caught the horse's head
With 'You must home again and wed
With somebody in your own land.'
A young man cried and kissed her hand
'O lady, wed with one of us;'
And when no face grew piteous
For any gentle thing she spake
She fell and died of the heart-break.'
Because a lover's heart's worn out
Being tumbled and blown about
By its own blind imagining,
And will believe that anything
That is bad enough to be true, is true,
Baile's heart was broken in two;
And he being laid upon green boughs
Was carried to the goodly house
Where the hound of Ulad sat before
The brazen pillars of his door;
His face bowed low to weep the end
Of the harper's daughter and her friend;
For although years had passed away
He always wept them on that day,
For on that day they had been betrayed;
And now that Honey-Mouth is laid
Under a cairn of sleepy stone
Before his eyes, he has tears for none,
Although he is carrying stone, but two
For whom the cairn's but heaped anew.
We hold because our memory is
So full of that thing and of this
That out of sight is out of mind.
But the grey rush under the wind
And the grey bird with crooked bill
Have such long memories that they still
Remember Deirdre and her man,
And when we walk with Kate or Nan
About the windy water side
Our heart can hear the voices chide.
How could we be so soon content
Who know the way that Naoise went?
And they have news of Deirdre's eyes
Who being lovely was so wise,
Ah wise, my heart knows well how wise.
Now had that old gaunt crafty one,
Gathering his cloak about him, run
Where Aillinn rode with waiting maids
Who amid leafy lights and shades
Dreamed of the hands that would unlace
Their bodices in some dim place
When they had come to the marriage bed;
And harpers pondering with bowed head
A music that had thought enough
Of the ebb of all things to make love
Grow gentle without sorrowings;
And leather-coated men with slings
Who peered about on every side;
And amid leafy light he cried,
'He is well out of wind and wave,
They have heaped the stones above his grave
In Muirthemne and over it
In changeless Ogham letters writ
Baile that was of Rury's seed.
But the gods long ago decreed
No waiting maid should ever spread
Baile and Aillinn's marriage bed,
For they should clip and clip again
Where wild bees hive on the Great Plain.
Therefore it is but little news
That put this hurry in my shoes.'
And hurrying to the south he came
To that high hill the herdsmen name
The Hill Seat of Leighin, because
Some god or king had made the laws
That held the land together there,
In old times among the clouds of the air.
That old man climbed; the day grew dim;
Two swans came flying up to him
Linked by a gold chain each to each
And with low murmuring laughing speech
Alighted on the windy grass.
They knew him: his changed body was
Tall, proud and ruddy, and light wings
Were hovering over the harp strings
That Etain, Midhir's wife, had wove
In the hid place, being crazed by love.
What shall I call them? fish that swim
Scale rubbing scale where light is dim
By a broad water-lily leaf;
Or mice in the one wheaten sheaf
Forgotten at the threshing place;
Or birds lost in the one clear space
Of morning light in a dim sky;
Or it may be, the eyelids of one eye
Or the door pillars of one house,
Or two sweet blossoming apple boughs
That have one shadow on the ground;
Or the two strings that made one sound
Where that wise harper's finger ran;
For this young girl and this young man
Have happiness without an end
Because they have made so good a friend.
They know all wonders, for they pass
The towery gates of Gorias
And Findrias and Falias
And long-forgotten Murias,
Among the giant kings whose hoard
Cauldron and spear and stone and sword
Was robbed before Earth gave the wheat;
Wandering from broken street to street
They come where some huge watcher is
And tremble with their love and kiss,
They know undying things, for they
Wander where earth withers away,
Though nothing troubles the great streams
But light from the pale stars, and gleams
From the holy orchards, where there is none
But fruit that is of precious stone,
Or apples of the sun and moon.
What were our praise to them: they eat
Quiet's wild heart, like daily meat,
Who when night thickens are afloat
On dappled skins in a glass boat
Far out under a windless sky,
While over them birds of Aengus fly,
And over the tiller and the prow
And waving white wings to and fro
Awaken wanderings of light air
To stir their coverlet and their hair.
And poets found, old writers say,
A yew tree where his body lay,
But a wild apple hid the grass
With its sweet blossom where hers was;
And being in good heart, because
A better time had come again
After the deaths of many men,
And that long fighting at the ford,
They wrote on tablets of thin board.
Made of the apple and the yew,
All the love stories that they knew.
Let rush and bird cry out their fill
Of the harper's daughter if they will,
Beloved, l am not afraid of her
She is not wiser nor lovelier,
And you are more high of heart than she
For all her wanderings over-sea;
But I'd have bird and rush forget
Those other two, for never yet
Has lover lived but longed to wive
Like them that are no more alive.
#
'Put off that mask of burning gold
With emerald eyes.'
'O no, my dear, you make so bold
To find if hearts be wild and wise,
And yet not cold.'
'I would but find what's there to find,
Love or deceit.'
'It was the mask engaged your mind,
And after set your heart to beat,
Not what's behind.'
'But lest you are my enemy,
I must enquire.'
'O no, my dear, let all that be,
What matter, so there is but fire
In you, in me?'
#
I swayed upon the gaudy stern
The butt end of a steering oar,
And everywhere that I could turn
Men ran upon the shore.
And though I would have hushed the crowd
There was no mother's son but said,
'What is the figure in a shroud
Upon a gaudy bed?'
And fishes bubbling to the brim
Cried out upon that thing beneath,
It had such dignity of limb,
By the sweet name of Death.
Though I'd my finger on my lip,
What could I but take up the song?
And fish and crowd and gaudy ship
Cried out the whole night long,
Crying amid the glittering sea,
Naming it with ecstatic breath,
Because it had such dignity
By the sweet name of Death.
#
If any man drew near
When I was young,
I thought, 'He holds her dear,'
And shook with hate and fear.
But oh, 't was bitter wrong
If he could pass her by
With an indifferent eye.
Whereon I wrote and wrought,
And now, being gray,
I dream that I have brought
To such a pitch my thought
That coming time can say,
'He shadowed in a glass
What thing her body was.'
For she had fiery blood
When I was young,
And trod so sweetly proud
As 't were upon a cloud,
A woman Homer sung,
That life and letters seem
But an heroic dream.
#
Ah, but Time has touched a form
That could show what Homer's age
Bred to be a hero's wage.
'Were not all her life but storm,
Would not painters paint a form
Of such noble lines' I said.
'Such a delicate high head,
So much sternness and such charm,
Till they had changed us to like strength?'
Ah, but peace that comes at length,
Came when Time had touched her form.
#
I had this thought awhile ago,
'My darling cannot understand
What I have done, or what would do
In this blind bitter land.'
And I grew weary of the sun
Until my thoughts cleared up again,
Remembering that the best I have done
Was done to make it plain;
That every year I have cried, 'At length
My darling understands it all,
Because I have come into my strength,
And words obey my call.'
That had she done so who can say
What would have shaken from the sieve?
I might have thrown poor words away
And been content to live.
#
Why should I blame her that she filled my days
With misery, or that she would of late
Have taught to ignorant men most violent ways,
Or hurled the little streets upon the great,
Had they but courage equal to desire?
What could have made her peaceful with a mind
That nobleness made simple as a fire,
With beauty like a tightened bow, a kind
That is not natural in an age like this,
Being high and solitary and most stern?
Why, what could she have done being what she is?
Was there another Troy for her to burn?
#
Some may have blamed you that you took away
The verses that could move them on the day
When, the ears being deafened, the sight of the eyes blind
With lightning you went from me, and I could find
Nothing to make a song about but kings,
Helmets, and swords, and half-forgotten things
That were like memories of you-but now
We'll out, for the world lives as long ago;
And while we're in our laughing, weeping fit,
Hurl helmets, crowns, and swords into the pit.
But, dear, cling close to me; since you were gone,
My barren thoughts have chilled me to the bone.
#
'Would it were anything but merely voice !'
The No King cried who after that was King,
Because he had not heard of anything
That balanced with a word is more than noise;
Yet Old Romance being kind, let him prevail
Somewhere or somehow that I have forgot,
Though he'd but cannon-Whereas we that had thought
To have lit upon as clean and sweet a tale
Have been defeated by that pledge you gave
In momentary anger long ago;
And I that have not your faith, how shall I know
That in the blinding light beyond the grave
We'll find so good a thing as that we have lost?
The hourly kindness, the day's common speech,
The habitual content of each with each
When neither soul nor body has been crossed.
#
O heart, be at peace, because
Nor knave nor dolt can break
What 's not for their applause,
Being for a woman's sake.
Enough if the work has seemed,
So did she your strength renew,
A dream that a lion had dreamed
Till the wilderness cried aloud,
A secret between you two,
Between the proud and the proud.
What, still you would have their praise!
But here's a haughtier text,
The labyrinth of her days
That her own strangeness perplexed;
And how what her dreaming gave
Earned slander, ingratitude,
From self-same dolt and knave;
Aye, and worse wrong than these.
Yet she, singing upon her road,
Half lion, half child, is at peace.
#
After love and fear, there's pride;
After tears, the night;
After all the words are gone,
A chair with just one light.
After memories, the dream
That you will come home safe;
After sleep, another day
Of waiting for my life.
After hope, the happiness
Of thinking of your love;
After moments of despair
A stone no thought can move.
After all the sacrifice,
The hunger and the pain,
The passions and the promises,
The losses and the gains,
There's nothing but my love for you,
Which waits upon the wind
To bring you from the barricades
That now you must defend.
#
After you leave, I will become a tree
Alone on a hillside, loving wind and sun,
Waiting for you to return home to me
Though centuries of lonely stars may run.
I'll grow tall and give lots of shade,
Sheltering birds and other bright-eyed things.
Pleased with all the progress that I've made,
I'll spread my leafy branches out like wings.
But oh! Every moment of every day
I'll miss you with the passion of the wind,
Gazing endlessly upon the way
That without you must empty, empty wind.
#
Am still a slender moon,
A scimitar about the heart
Too sharp to touch too soon.
Before I'm touched I need to grow
More full in golden light;
I need to smile upon my earth
And rule some patch of night.
I need to know what roads and fields
Lie in my domain
And dull my brand new ecstasies
With sophomoric pain.
I need the love of some blank boy
As cold and dark as me,
That we might grope in ignorance
And fear of what might be.
And then, when I'm a silver bowl
And know what I can hold,
Then, then, perhaps, we could try love
If you are not too old.
#
Do you want me? What's the matter?
You're afraid some door will close?
You want the scent without the rose?
The moans of love without the chatter?
You think our love might be a tomb,
The only exit through my pain?
You'd rather put things off again
To give your fantasies some room?
You think: she's great, but in a while
I might get bored? Or something better,
Filling out a tighter sweater,
Might flash me a quick come-on smile?
You don't want to be tied just yet
To just one future, just one kiss?
You think about all you might miss
And hold out for a better bet?
Well, fine! But then why do you haunt
Me like a jackal night and day?
Why, when my interest seems to stray,
Are you so sure of what you want?
#
Why, when I dare so much as laugh
At some guy's jokes, you go ballistic,
Nasty, borderline sadistic,
As if somebody touched your stuff?
And yet when I hook on to you,
You will not let yourself be mine,
Take out your fears and draw a line
Between what you and I can do?
But freedom must be mutual,
And it takes two for one embrace.
You can't both love and freedom chase,
Unless you would adore a fool.
#
Dreams do come true, but only when
They make it through despair,
Limping into everyday
Transformed beyond repair.
No dream would be a dream if it
Could pass for something real,
Nor would we sail for paradise
Would it its shoals conceal.
So it is with love: the dream
Long longed for, now possessed,
Must be a dream no longer, but
An emperor undressed.
Stark naked it must come to us
In unaccustomed shame,
And we must take it in our arms
And love it all the same.
And we must love love as it is
That dreams might still come true,
Mangled into miracles
To make our lives anew.
#
Each truth is just a scrim across the darkness.
We cannot see what most we'd like to know.
We drive among sheer cliffs in pale moonlight
Unsure of where we are or where to go.
When we allow our heads to make our choices,
We lose because of what we cannot see.
When we give way and let desire take us,
We lose because we want what cannot be.
We inch along the dream-lit rocky ridges
Knowing always, always we must lose.
The end for all is darkness everlasting,
And so it matters less which road we choose.
What matters is the beauty of sheer being;
The gifts we have and those we will become;
The ecstasy of loving so completely
That we ourselves are more than minds can plumb.
Love well and know that love must end in pain.
Be a fool and pay the unmarked price.
Be generous of self, and passion gain:
One who never loses, loses twice.
#
Even though we fight a lot, I love you.
We fight, I think, because the stakes are high.
I sometimes get so mad I cannot stand you,
But underneath my anger I could cry.
I have an uncontrolled need to control you,
To be your only destiny and guide.
I know it isn't fair to try to mold you,
But my poor love's entangled in my pride.
Ah, love! Please love me even in my fury,
Which rises like a tide beneath the moon.
I plead before my only judge and jury:
I want to change, but know change won't come soon.
Love finds it hard to let the loved one be
The person who is loved so passionately.
#
Everything I've done, I've done
Only for your love.
Everything I am, I am
In hopes your heart will move.
I know that you love someone else,
But while you're away,
I'll love you just as though our love
Would last till you are grey.
Till you and I are grey, my love,
And all our days are done,
I'll love you just as I do now;
Your heart's my only home.
#
Fate is oft the filament of passion,
Illumined by the force of its fierce flow.
For love, far more than chance, may fortunes fashion,
The unwilled will that wills the world we know.
Years break, yet love maintains the tides below.
Of love, fate is the most precise expression,
Nor could one find a more complete confession,
Even as good tidings come and go.
#
Gifts are not always free.
A giver wants to know: Are you enjoying my gift?
Burdens can be sources of intense pleasure.
Recently, unable to distinguish between burdens and gifts,
Indian elephants dragged seventeen tons of teak logs
over the Himalayas.
Each of us has made his or her own version of this
mistake.
Love is a gift.
Burdens betray themselves by the rattle of their needs.
Each of us wants to know: Am I a burden or a gift?
Very few understand that to be a gift one must receive
more than one gives,
Even while burdens come decked out in ribbons and
bows.
Refusing a gift brings regret, not guilt.
Lingering doubts may be referred to a mirror.
Yesterday the elephants returned: happy, sweaty, and a
good deal wiser.
#
He cares only that I'm happy,
Even were I not with him.
If some seek on the wind love's traces,
Some seek out the love within.
All my pleasures are his treasures,
Nor does he crave joy alone.
All have claim on his compassion;
No dark soul is on its own.
Giving thus, so naturally,
Each day he lights the love in me,
Like candles on a sunlit stone.
#
Hold me to your willing heart
And let me-help me-weep
That I of need might fall apart
And then at last might sleep.
Let the truth slice into me
That I might finally bleed
And purge myself of agony
I cannot now concede.
For I have bound myself in light
That I might live in joy,
And cannot-will not-let the night
My bonds of love destroy.
And yet I know if I would gain
The peace for which I pray,
I must allow the floods of pain
To wash my love away.
#
How can I have a fight with my best friend?
The mountain blows, the landscape is destroyed.
A desert where there once were fields and gardens.
Black lava where flowers once brought joy.
And then shoots of grass come through the blackness;
Slowly love asserts itself again.
He calls, I cry, we go through days of whispers,
And fields once more grow lush in sun and rain.
Ah! But now I'm fearful of the mountain:
I walk by trembling, set for it to blow.
Life's beautiful, but also very painful;
I have the strength to love, now that I know.
#
How can I know so surely that I'll love you
No matter what the future has in store?
Time is like a cave in which our torches
Show only the circumference of our minds.
But love is will far more than it is passion,
Though passion may at first sustain the will.
One chooses love the way one chooses faith
Because that is the way that heaven lies.
My love for you is vaster than the ocean,
More rich in loveliness than coral seas.
I would no more relinquish it than let go
Willingly the precious gift of life.
#
How did I lose your baby blue eyes
And the smile that lit up my sky?
What did I say that sent you away?
Can somebody tell me why?
Sometimes we move away from the flow
And find ourselves lost and alone.
What turn did I miss after some kiss
That told me what I should have known?
How did you get so far from my heart
Without my becoming aware?
What did you see deep inside me
That I never knew was there?
We drive in the darkness down strange empty roads
Into sudden and unforeseen pain.
We think that we choose, but after we lose,
We see that we've done it again.
#
How often are things simply clear and right?
Each day we come to moments of despair.
Love is something wonderfully there,
Even in the blackest hours of night.
No one can tell why one of all the rest
Makes our flower open to the sun.
In truth we could love almost anyone.
Choosing, though, does not involve a test.
How often does an angel touch our skin,
Altering forever who we are?
Every passion fades, but love's a star
Lit by holy fires deep within.
#
I am afraid to love, and yet I love you.
My fear is like a wall I walk right through.
The wall is there, and yet it doesn't stop me.
I need it still, and yet I still need you.
I know someday we will be in a field
Surrounded by the blessing of the sky.
I'll dance with all the freedom of pure joy,
Needing you without a reason why.
But now I'm still afraid that I might lose you,
That you might not accept my desperate need.
You make me laugh and cry and be completely.
You are the flower, I the slender reed.
#
I am of the desert, you of cultivation:
Simplicity to me, to you is desolation;
Heat, thirst, and agony I seek out on vacation,
While you look for elegance and quiet restoration.
I am of the ocean, you are of the shore:
You want fewer waves, I manufacture more;
You like tranquil bays, I love the rollers' roar;
In me, a wild emptiness; in you, a quiet core.
While I am like a stream, you are like a lake:
I babble over boulders, you reflections make;
I rush forward heedlessly, as bones and branches break;
You part before the piercing bow and then absorb the
wake.
That such extremes should not be mingled might seem
elementary;
But love can make the wildest contradictions
complementary.
#
I didn't get a chance to say I love you.
You were gone before we got that far.
All I know is now I really need you,
Yet when I look for you, you aren't there.
You said once that you never would forget me,
Yet how am I to know without you here?
Such emptiness! Like what I feel within me:
Neither flesh nor tears, just cold thin air.
Sometimes, alone, I feel your arms around me,
And all my need for you spills out in pain.
Jagged memories of you surround me.
I cannot think I won't see you again.
#
I don't know how we get into these fights.
After them I look back at the ashes
More shocked than hurt, as when a light plane crashes,
Slanting numb through strange, unearthly lights.
Oh, how I wish I could get off that plane
Rushing to its rendezvous with tears!
Rage is but a mask for my shy fears.
Yet I would die before I caused you pain.
#
I feel as though my heart lay bleeding
On a countertop.
The pain is like a flooded scream
That cannot, will not stop.
I cannot live, I cannot breathe;
Pain is all I do.
I cannot think how I can be
Long living without you.
Ah, God! I want you back so bad
That I would gladly die
To hold you in my arms again
And not care how or why;
To hold you in my arms again
And tell you of my love,
And then go gladly back to dust
Should I your heart not move.
#
I find my happiness in loving you.
Though my love is not returned, I don't mind waiting.
The woods are a cathedral where I pray
For the beauty and grace that lie within my heart.
You hold me and we kiss, and yet not yet
Is there the unity that love must crave.
You want me, but not as I want you;
This truth is like a wreckage on my sea.
There's no one else I hunger for, nor touch
That makes me feel I must take off my skin;
And so I'll wait as years pile up like leaves,
And long with the lonely patience of the moon.
#
I have a monster crush on you,
A super-dinosaur!
It sits upon my chest and throat
And yet I beg for more.
When you're away I miss you so
My heart is full of sand.
Yet when you're here my stupid fear
Won't let me touch your hand.
I cannot sleep, I cannot eat,
I'm so wrapped up in you.
My thoughts drift up, away from words,
And fade into the blue.
I know this crush is not your fault;
The dinosaur is mine.
Yet if you could, please rescue me,
And put your arms around me, and hold me, and say
you love me, and Oh! God! Would that be
good!
#
I know I must have hurt you, caused you pain.
More, I know that I have lost your trust.
I wish I had that moment back again
To pulverize my carelessness and lust.
Sometimes we have to lose what we most cherish
To understand how much we are in need.
We play with life until we nearly perish
To dare the darkness, though within we bleed.
I need you as the sun must have a rose
To turn its empty radiance to glory,
Or as a nation needs someone who knows
The secrets of its long-forgotten story.
I know my need of you more than before;
Thus for my trespass you may trust me more.
#
I look at you and think: I cannot live
Without you; you're the person of my dreams.
Of course I know I can, but I must give
My heart room to tell it as it seems.
Romance must have a language fit for feeling
More than fits between the earth and sky.
For love there cannot be a floor or ceiling:
My love goes down too deep and flies too high.
So when I say I cannot live without you,
Know I can't imagine so much pain;
And when I claim to always dream about you,
Well, know the moon is happy once again.
The sun reveals cold truths for all to see,
But I must light my love with poetry.
#
I love you as a valley loves
The river through its fields,
Or as a note upon a page
The music that it yields.
I need you as the moon requires
The sun to make it shine,
Or as a soul in search of faith
Is rescued by some sign.
You are as much a part of me
As meadows are of Earth,
Or as a song is of a heart,
Replenishing its worth.
I love you as a hawk loves air,
Or a sailor loves the sea,
Or as a strong wave seeks the sand,
But ah! do you love me?
#
I love you even though I know
You show no love for me.
Your eyes are icy springs that feed
My hidden ecstasy.
All night I hold you in my arms
And sleep in your embrace.
All day I turn away from life
To gaze upon your face.
Alone I find within my heart
A black and raging sea,
For only you, beloved one,
Can calm my Galilee.
#
I love you with all I am
And all I'll ever be.
You are my moon, my sun and stars,
My earth, my sky, my sea.
My love for you goes down and down
Beneath both life and death,
Have drawn my last faint breath.
Holding you for months and years
Will make Time disappear,
Will make your lips my lips, your face
My face, your tear my tear;
Will make us one strange personage
All intertwined with bliss,
Not man or woman, live or dead-
Just nothing-but a kiss!
#
I must accept but can't what cannot be.
I see you and my heart dissolves in pain.
You are not dead, but you are dead to me.
What happened to our love's a mystery.
I rummage through our empty past in vain.
I must accept but can't what cannot be:
That someone else now shares your off-hand "we,"
Now feels your tender tongue all feeling drain . . .
You are not dead, but you are dead to me.
I cannot lay aside my agony:
Again, again, I play the same refrain.
I must accept but can't what cannot be.
And yet I know this tortured ecstasy
Is just my way of holding you again.
You are not dead, but you are dead to me,
And still I cannot bear to set you free,
That of our love some remnant might remain.
I must accept but can't what cannot be.
You are not dead, but you are dead to me.
#
I used to be completely cruel and heartless,
Using girls, then tossing them aside.
I used to feel an angry, bitter hunger,
Not knowing why, nor looking much inside.
I used to think the goal of life was pleasure:
My own, of course, whatever that might take.
A woman's feelings had to be her problem.
Self-sacrifice was always a mistake.
And so, with just the slightest twinge of conscience,
I hunted for my lonely ecstasy;
And even when I wanted a companion,
The only one I cared about was me.
We make our worlds, like God, in our own image:
Mine was a metropolis of stone
In which all souls were either fools or cynics,
Doomed to take their pleasure on their own.
And then I fell in love with you, and somehow
Your happiness meant more to me than mine.
The desert became green and lush with flowers,
And like a sun my heart began to shine.
#
And like a wind I swept across the ocean,
And like a star exploded into night,
And like a song I held love in my hands,
And like an angel knew that this was right.
All that I had thought was proven wrong,
All the lies to justify my greed.
To love was to embrace the pith of life,
To feel a joy far stronger than a need.
And if I could so love, I could be loved,
Could think someone might want me and believe it,
Could let another know me without shame,
Could give my self and know I could retrieve it.
All this I tell you that I might be known,
That all of me no longer be alone;
And if you do not love the one I am,
So be it. I will weep, but understand.
#
I want to make you smile as you make me.
I wish you saw my thoughts right through my eyes.
You ask me what I'm thinking. I can't tell you.
You are the stars, and I the empty skies.
In me there is a yearning ever flowing
That needs to reach an end that never comes.
I cannot be myself without you with me.
This is a truth no wisdom ever plumbs.
You laugh, and say that I'm your personal angel,
And this is what I want so much to be.
The beauty of my life is like a passion
That blows right through the person that you see.
#
I want to make your heart beat just for me.
I want a true love in my lonely life.
I've looked a long time, dated many men,
But none I walked with walked in step with me.
We walk together well, the best of friends.
Somehow we just fit, as if clean cut
To go together, zigzags complementary.
But now I would be something more than friends.
I know I take a chance to mention love.
I've no idea what feeling's in your heart.
But if you'd catch a burning, plunging star,
I know I'd make you happy for your love.
#
I wish that I could be with you
And hold you in my arms,
Whisper all my love to you
And kiss away your tears.
I wish that I could take your cares
And put them all away,
Neatly folded into drawers
While pleasure lights your smile.
I wish that joy could step inside
Your heart and stay awhile,
And all the rain could turn into
A rainbow in the sun.
And all our loneliness like mist
Could fade into the blue,
A memory of sad, hard times
That happened long ago.
But I cannot come home right now,
And you cannot come here;
And so our dreams must be the fields
On which we laugh and play.
#
If life cannot be what we want,
It will, it will be so;
For love can turn the harshest light
To gold through sheer affection.
#
I wish this poem were pixie dust
To throw into your eyes
And make you see the loveliness
Beneath my sad disguise.
And I would take you in my arms
A weave a magic spell
That I could utter anytime
To make you love me well.
But alas my simple words
Are like summer rain
That drums on hills and fields and hearts,
Then vanishes again.
And though my love might make you bloom,
You turn with fragile grace
To gaze in aching loneliness
At someone else's face.
We lust for what we cannot have,
A long, unbroken chain
Of lovers who remain unloved
And loved who love in vain.
#
While I'm near mad with wanting you
As trees must have the sun,
You cannot help but find a love
Who loves another one.
#
I'm sorry for the way I say I love you.
I know this kind of talk is far too soon.
I cannot stop myself; I just adore you.
And so this truth pronounces its own doom.
But when a truth betrays itself, I wonder:
Could it be that such a truth be true?
Or could the sweet compulsion that I'm under
Be caused in part by ignorance of you?
I know only the truth of what I feel,
Which lies beneath all sanity or rule.
My love for you is deep and rich and real,
Though it may be I simply am a fool.
Time will tell the truth, for if you do
Not want my love, I cannot long love you.
#
In daylight you're a haunting melody,
More lovely than the world before my eyes.
In darkness you become my symphony,
So much of me I know no other ties.
So are you nestled with me night and day,
Your missing self transmuted into song,
Or walking close beside me on my way,
Unleashing all the love for which I long.
#
In mourning, seafog
Makes small things visible.
Pearls cling to petals.
Pine needles are fringed with glass.
The sea breaks against rocks.
Heaving back, it breaks again.
What does the wild rose know of its beauty?
Have you any idea what you've given me?
#
It sometimes seems so foolish to persist
When years and miles separate our lips.
Despair's a midnight lover, hard to resist
In a darkness that crushes, an emptiness that grips . . .
But the thought of giving up is just like death:
The same wild pain, the alleys of hollow years,
The python twisted hard around my breath,
My eyes cracking under the weight of tears.
Ah, my darling! If now we are in pain,
It's for a love that floods our hearts with light.
We know that we will share that joy again
If dreams can take us through this anguished night.
Soaring 'cross the sea, we dip and glide:
Our lips apart, our thoughts are side by side.
#
It's amazing how I feel when I'm around you,
How my heart pounds when you come into a room.
I look at you and think: My God! How lovely!
And everything I am bursts into bloom.
I feel as though you must, you must be mine,
Not as a possession but a goal,
Something almost unimaginable:
The free devotion of another soul.
As though I were about to enter heaven
Or just within the hour condemned to die,
My mind with one fierce thought keeps running over,
With you, and only you, the reason why.
#
Just as the whole wide world has been connected,
Opening our lives to one and all,
So our inner worlds have intersected:
Now love halfway around the world can call.
Our keyboard conversations have run deep,
Reaching to the source of joy and pain.
In time, though now one writes while one's asleep,
No barriers to passion will remain
As lovers meet beneath the sun and rain.
#
Let me love you well, if not too long,
For passion is a lover of fresh air,
Relishing the landscape that is there,
Belonging to what must to all belong.
Let me make you part of my sweet song,
As I will be of yours, that both more fair
May part, enriched by what we share,
More seized by life, more gentle, and more strong.
For passion is a gift one should not squander:
For fear of loss, losing life's best joy,
The ecstasy that we were meant to feel.
And if it comes and goes, then we must wander,
Enjoying what we're given to enjoy,
Reveling in what our loves reveal.
#
Lose yourself in lust, my love;
Enjoy me as a thing.
Make my flesh your fantasy;
My soul, your sycophant.
I would you would with me, my love,
Let all your voices sing,
Losing not one ecstasy
That some sweet sin might grant.
For love loves not that secret space
Where dreams turn into wounds,
Festering for lack of care,
Untended but by stealth.
Love enjoys a secret grace,
Calliope of tunes
Inexhaustible, for there,
In trust, lies love's true wealth.
#
Love comes to those who love, who find their joy
In others' joy, their tears in others' tears.
Those in need receive the gifts that buoy
Them through the misspent yearnings of their years.
Weakness is a strength, and power none,
For none has power to compel affection.
Passion to the self-consumed may come,
But love looks for the grace of its reflection.
Love is like a tide that comes and goes,
And comes and goes according to the moon,
Giving and receiving as it flows
Between high headlands weathered and rough-hewn.
For love becomes itself the cause of love,
A double-knot not easy to remove.
#
Love has obstacles enough, they say:
Why add to them the obstacle of race?
Two backgrounds so diverse can't share one space.
Love can't keep the world's harsh truths at bay.
Ah, love! Let such trite wisdom go its way!
All life is difficult yet full of grace.
All men and women share the same small place.
Nor should we out of fear our love betray.
Love is to daily life a vein of gold
Running through the rock like liquid fire,
Making ordinary moments glow.
May we treasure it as we grow old:
The breath that does our dreary clay inspire,
The touch that transforms everything we know.
#
Love is like a large white cat
Sitting on its paws.
You may pet it all you like;
It lives by its own laws.
It comes and goes as it decides
No matter what you say.
It seems the more you want it near,
The more it goes away.
And then when you are quite content
To sit out in the sun
Alone with just your thoughts and dreams,
Not needing anyone,
Out it comes, as if in fear
That somehow you'll forget,
And jumps up purring in your lap,
Demanding to be pet.
#
Love is never easy, but
It turns life into song.
There is no bit of circumstance
That love cannot transform.
There is no weary moment
Of anger or despair
That love cannot convert to grace
And render whole and fair.
How passionate the paradise
That comes from knowing well
That someone in your happiness
Finds pleasure for himself.
How sweet the gift of giving to
Someone who gives to you,
A selflessness that gives to self
More self than self is due.
With all the searing madness of
The world from day to day,
And all the dreary sadness that
No joy can take away,
There is one truth more beautiful
Than anyone can bear:
That two can trust that when they turn
They'll find the other there.
#
Love lingers in the alleyways
And wafts across the streets,
And knocks upon my double doors
But never does come in.
Love finds a home in entranceways
And rattles round retreats,
And scurries past the faint applause
Just two doors down from sin.
Ah! Would I love would I but know
What love might have in store!
For I have fears of heavy chains
That jangle in my joy.
And I have fears of floods that flow
From asking life for more.
Silent, I prefer the gains
Such tempests would destroy.
#
Love me in the circle of your evening,
And in the morning quiet of your dreams.
Love me underneath ambitious schemes,
And when they slow and time can use some seasoning.
I do not need your highways and your streets
As long as I can be there when you're home.
We both have miles of paradise to roam:
Let me be where your brave heart retreats.
And I will love you in the times of tears,
Of hope and laughter, pain and ecstasy,
And all the days of haunted thoughts, when we
Can share the undertow of vanished years.
#
Love redeems the passions of the moment
Underneath the qualms that quell the sea.
All the queries that have room to comment
Know quite well how good it is to be!
Love allows the rivers to run freely,
The tides to turn without the least regret,
The mountains to give way to time, sincerely
Pleased with what the eons will forget.
Love turns every moment to forever,
And every thing to unintended song,
And makes a worship out of all endeavor,
And through its suffering, undoes all wrong.
Bear witness, then, in love, that you might bear
To be, with neither purpose nor despair.
#
Love was not enough for us,
Though we were much in love.
We started down the well-worn path,
But it was not to be.
Delight was not enough for us,
Nor tenderness that moved
Through years of angry dissonance
Towards some dark, bitter sea.
Our differences were far too great,
Our lives too far apart.
We didn't like each other much,
But put that truth aside
Until one day it was too late
To reignite the heart.
One told the other, who agreed
At last that it had died.
But then, ah, then! we felt our loss
As unremitting pain,
As deep and inconsolable,
Unbearable regret.
And all alone we had to cross
That desert once again
That we might know that we had loved
Too much to soon forget.
#
Lovers aren't always best of friends:
Too much, sometimes, lies between their sheets.
In fact they need a friend to share the sweets
And sorrows of a love that always ends.
Love that lasts is love that's more than passion:
A wedding of true friendship and desire.
Some might fear a certain loss of fire,
But pleasure is ignited by compassion.
You're the one in whom I most confide,
The inner ear I talk to through the day,
The flesh I need when I must have my way,
The world where I am home when I'm inside.
And even more, I find my pleasure, too,
From seeing the delight you take in me,
The comfort, quiet joy, and ecstasy
That it is my gift to give to you.
#
Loving you is something that comes easy,
Like walking in the sunshine to a song,
Like being in a place where you belong,
Like finding reasons when you know you're ready.
Nor do I care that working days are dreary,
The pay's a pittance and the hours are long.
Knowing that you love me keeps me strong,
The light within that lets me see life clearly.
Why is love the music of our meaning,
The lilt that makes our labor worth our living,
The loveliness no platitude can bear?
In you I have a harvest past all gleaning,
A gift arrested in the act of giving,
A moment of delight that's always there.
#
More love is in my heart than any heaven-
Angels, God, and saints-can ever hold.
Though we're apart, I have you in my garden,
Touching you as Time turns into gold.
How could our love long last, to darkness driven,
Except we conjure up our own dear Eden,
With pleasures far more fierce than dreams foretold.
#
My love is something separate
From what we say or do.
Though we might have it out with words,
I'm still in love with you.
Just as waves ignore the rocks
On their way to shore,
And keep on coming even if
They see what lies in store,
So I will come, no matter what,
And break, and come again,
And break against your wilderness
Beyond all joy and pain.
#
Night comes to me throughout the day
And closes my external door.
I know that I am in for more
Unhappiness, and yet I stay.
The pain of missing you is less
Than that of missing thoughts of you.
And so I'd rather suffer through
This torture than face emptiness.
I want you with me, even though
You're not with me. You are the light
That gets me through this awful night
Yet brings the darkness where I go.
#
No matter what our troubles, I still love you,
As though a part of me were also you.
Life isn't easy, but I know without you
There will be bitterness in all I do.
I feel the broken heaven in my heart,
The blight that will outlast the years of healing,
The darkness underneath all time and art,
The pain that from within there's no concealing.
We were so much in love when we first met,
A river that would reach, in time, the sea.
We ought not let despair turn to regret,
But be through choice what love chose us to be.
No love can last except it be through will.
Were wastelands in our path, I'd love you still.
#
Our love is torn by miles, not by choice.
Soon, soon, my darling, I'll be coming home.
At night I play your body and your voice,
But soon the hands and cries will be your own.
I want to love you all the hours we've missed,
And do the things I've fantasized for you:
Kiss you all the places my mind's kissed,
And put you everywhere I've wanted to.
My only fear's desiring you so much
That dream will overwhelm reality;
Time, for both of us, must temper touch
So love can once again be slow and free.
My mind's already half insane with pleasure;
Soon, soon my body will consume its treasure.
#
Our love's a place where I no longer live;
That was a home, and now is just a house.
I went back in my heart the other day,
But nothing in there struck me as my own.
Strange how life moves on, and what we cherish
Turns to something alien in our hands.
And later, when we try to comprehend it,
It fades into the twilight of our tears.
I woke again upon a sunny morning,
Alive to what I hoped would be a song.
You were yesterday, which I remembered
As though it were a year or two ago.
#
Passion may remain a gift,
But love is not for free.
To love and be loved two must give,
Or love is not to be.
Love is a decision made
Not once, but every day.
Two must move to set aside
The mountains in the way.
Two must act to take apart
The walls of me and you,
Just as in the act of love
One's joy brings joy to two.
Just as love's pure ecstasy
Makes others' joys our own,
Just so will love in daily life
Make sweet green fields of stone.
#
Perhaps it's far too early to reveal
A feeling not yet ready to be love.
The light of dawn, though hesitant, is real;
Real as well the hopes that time will prove.
I dance across the meadows of my heart
Carrying doubts that mingle joy and fear.
I know I'm half myself when we're apart;
All I want is with me when you're near.
#
Please don't mind if I make love to you
Imagining another in my arms.
No one special-anyone will do
Whose claims have not yet sanitized her charms.
Lust loves not love, but finds its joy in power:
To stir someone to sunlit ecstasy;
To purchase someone's person by the hour;
To force the flesh to yield the fantasy.
Love loves not lust, but finds its joy in giving:
Pleasure, yes, but passion slowly fades.
Affection, yes, but one needs more from living:
The knife-sharp edge of lust that love betrays.
Give then, my love, the flesh that spurs the dream,
As I for you, that lust might love redeem.
#
Precisely the polarities
Parenthesizing pleasure
Persuade us to anesthetize
The love we fear to feel.
A train of trivialities,
Buried, becomes treasure,
As we sentimentalize
A boredom that was real.
How might we find a fantasy
That strides into the heart,
Awakening the winter wind
Bearing death and pain?
How might we live an ecstasy
That picks our joys apart,
Leaving what we love behind
On wings, on winds, in chains?
#
Pretend this poem is me, and I am with you;
I hold you in the circle of my fire.
Come into me, and time and space will vanish,
You and I alone, joined at the root.
There is a special room where I am with you;
I close the door and you are in my arms.
You become my skin, my self, my world,
Till I go back to sleep in lonely darkness.
So we defeat the miles and months between us;
We make love in our hearts if not in touch.
You are more to me in hope and passion
Than any man who brushes by my day.
#
--One can be unhappy by oneself, but to be truly
tormented, one must love.
--Love is harder to accept than to give.
--To love is to embrace life. To love fully is to embrace
both death and life.
--The secret of happiness is simple: Be loving, giving,
caring.
Why, then, are so many unhappy?
Because they are afraid.
--Love only yourself, and you are alone.
Love only one other, and the two of you are alone.
Love only your family, and your family is alone.
Love only your nation, and your nation is alone.
There can be no communion, not even with yourself,
except through love of God.
#
So who said it was easy to keep old flames burning?
Even experts could use a little divine help now and
then.
The easy part is to go out and be brilliant as
Shakespeare.
Harder-much harder-to be the light dancing in
someone else's eyes.
Lights such as love require more faith than fuel.
Of all leaps, the most dangerous is into the mind of
your lover.
Regarding miracles: What is less explicable than
Remaining in love through the long icy anguish of
anger?
All lovers long for freedom only slightly less than they
fear it.
In the end, love burns not desire but fear.
Not one of us would be capable of keeping the fire
burning
Except for the knowledge that it is the sweetest, best,
and most beautiful thing in our lives.
#
Take it as a given that I love you,
And let the conversation go from there.
There isn't much I wouldn't do to please you,
So tell me what to do to make you care.
Tell me what it is that turns you from me,
And why you cannot cherish who I am,
And why you must insist that you still love me
When so much that I do you cannot stand.
The truth is not at all what we imagine,
Reaching regions deeper than our thoughts.
Needs are rarely troubled by opinions,
And love gives no advice unless it's sought.
So plunge into yourself as in a sea,
Then tell me truly what you want of me.
#
Tell me more, my love, how much you love me;
When I am hungry, chill me with a kiss.
Endlessly proclaim your admiration,
Never try to hide your fascination,
Though at times I may do aught amiss.
You, of course, may ask the same of me.
That you put nothing in your life above me
Will aid in me a similar dedication.
Only thus do lovers spin their bliss.
#
Thank you for staying in my life.
How could I have ushered you away?
Another person might have made me pay,
Needing the sweet vengeance of my grief.
Kindness is in everything you do.
You must love me very much to stay.
Often now, some moment of each day,
Unbidden, I am grateful I have you.
#
The chance of happiness equals the risk of pain.
Whenever you love, it's too good to be true.
Even so, it's truer than you believe,
Nor will you know till it vanishes again.
Time is a sea which opens where you cleave
Yet roils over what you leave behind.
For now, my love sings in the stars,
Or hisses against rocks like the sea,
Unraveling your life when you pause to grieve,
Returning with the sunlight, with the rain.
#
The difference between love and lust is:
Love is about you.
Lust is about me.
#
The first true sign of love is anger:
What we need, we're likely to resent.
Each needing, needed, leaned on, leaning,
No longer free standing stone and white.
The wistful, tender fear of finity
Yields a darker shimmer of sublimity.
Now indeed some sunny, delicate blight
Inaugurates a subterranean keening.
None can turn away and not be bent,
Each in each part self, part untouched stranger.
#
There are no bars to our embrace,
No presence more than in the heart.
We live our lives with love and grace,
Together still, though still apart.
No presence more than in the heart,
No touch more salient than a dream.
Together still, though still apart,
We are more lucky than we seem.
No touch more salient than a dream,
Though dreams alone must sometimes be.
We are more lucky than we seem
If I trust you, and you trust me.
Though dreams alone must sometimes be,
We live our lives with love and grace.
If I trust you, and you trust me,
There are no bars to our embrace.
#
There are some pleasures I would try with you
So sweet I cannot tell you what they are.
For love, the dark provides a better view
Of things that words or light may often mar.
So close your eyes and let go of your will;
Let me guide you blind to ecstasy.
Open doors and let desire fill
Each orifice my tongue might let me see.
Beauty's not the slave of just one sense,
But master of them all. The inner eye,
Awake to an aesthetic far more dense
Than sight alone can know, awaits your cry.
So join me in the splendors of the night
Where touch becomes our eyes, and love our light.
#
There is no life without its share of pain,
Nor can you love and not feel agony,
A need whose hunger drives you near insane,
A state in which you must, but cannot be.
There is no cure, nor anything to say,
Nor any aspirin for unhappiness.
Other friends and loves will come your way
And then pass on through death or faithlessness.
And so if you would ever dwell in joy,
You must embrace the agony of sorrow.
Time will all you love and need destroy,
But you will heal to love again tomorrow.
#
Truth is rarely an expression of love:
Honesty most often precedes pain.
In hope there is the fragrance of illusion;
Romance requires the charm of light confusion;
The best lovers are criminally insane.
Yet lies, eventually, will suck out passion.
One must be truthful if one hopes to love:
Not cruelly, but enough to ease delusion.
Each love must be broken, then built back again.
#
We met as merely words upon a screen,
Disembodied souls who found a mate
Through mind alone, and unsuspected yearning.
We fell in love the best way, sight unseen,
Pure hunger than nor feast nor flesh could sate,
Two hidden flames fair fed by phrases burning.
Most find their way by sight into the heart,
Loving first what must most quickly change
And only then what will the years endure.
We did the opposite, though not by art,
Taking steps that we did not arrange
Along a path both passionate and sure.
#
We met upon the Internet,
A friendship electronic,
Expressed alone in words and thoughts,
Inevitably platonic.
We live too far apart for us
To mingle in the flesh,
But much more close than family,
Our hearts and feelings mesh.
Your dear, dear self reveals itself
Without a voice or face.
We have our own sweet home within
Our precious cyberspace.
#
We started out as friends and now it's love.
How beautiful to move so easily
From comradeship to passionate intimacy,
Pure gain, with no rough edges to remove.
This turn was nothing I'd been thinking of,
No maybes or perhapses, consciously.
I knew desire, but love was not for me
Until I felt my heart from friendship move.
I never felt so happily at home
As I do now, so rich in what life brings.
Your pleasure is now mine, as mine is yours.
I never realized that my life alone
Flitted like a ghost among dead things,
Glancing in through other people's doors.
#
What makes stars romantic? Is it the beauty
Of a night sky dark lit with diamonds?
Or the wilderness of blue-white witnesses
Staring wordless back across the abyss?
Or the fascination of forever? (For love
Is a fragment of forever lodged in the heart.)
Is it the need for two when one seems so small?
The desire to touch in the temple? The vast, lonely
Field of life in which love, too, is a light
Amidst darkness? (So many lovers scattered across
The black canopy like burning dust.)
Or is it the passion at a star's heart?
The heat of love lighting the emptiness,
Hurling its ardor across light years of sorrow
To tell us something about what yearns within?
#
When at the same time one feels joy and sorrow,
Sunlit sadness weeping golden tears,
Glad of today, but wary of tomorrow,
Half-consumed by pride and half by tears;
When one possesses what one most desires
Yet knows that one must soon that fortune lose,
Rich in all that happiness requires,
Yet poor, for what one knows one would not choose;
When the day, rolling in its glory,
Must meet its gaudy end in unsought night,
Then one must find the beauty in one's story,
And, like the sun unceasing, pour forth light.
So will I, till you come home again,
Still feel this joy resplendent through my pain.
#
When we broke up, you said you'd always love me.
Always, you said, always we'd be friends.
But soon I saw you wanted nothing of me,
And then I understood that's how it ends.
You said, "Well, it's much harder than I thought."
I guess it's always easier to lie.
You said, "Well, ask me anything you want."
But I was much too frightened to ask why.
I guess it doesn't matter why we failed,
Or why I love you after all you've done,
Or why the harshest truths must be unveiled
After the last train has come and gone.
I miss you and I love you, even though
What happened lies too deep for me to know.
#
You are everything I ever wanted.
On you my future happiness depends.
Unless I'm with you all my thoughts are haunted.
After seeing you, my unease ends.
Reason warns me that I am in danger:
Eventually, everything must fade.
My love, like yours, is flammable in anger.
Yet my trust is such, I'm not afraid.
Something in our love's more than emotion,
Underneath each thought and each desire;
Not even all the water in the ocean
Seems up to putting out this one small fire.
How could this be? Within our love is something
Immeasurable, infinite, and good.
Nothing in all life can match this one thing
Each other passion would be, if it could.
#
You don't love me, but ah! do I love you!
It kills me that right now you have another!
Each day I watch the antics of you two
Happy hopping birds and say, why bother?
But I am chained to you as fish to sea,
Or as the moon to Earth or Earth to sun.
The thought of letting go so tortures me
That I would rather let my anguish run.
I know that if I wait you will be mine.
Such love as this must sweep all walls away!
I am your natural light, and I will shine
Till due rotation turns your night to day.
Until then, this sorrow will remain:
My hope of joy must be my source of pain.
#
You had me for a night, then turned away,
Inspiring a love you didn't want.
I was a fairy you might unenchant
To show yourself that you could have your way.
And now I'm left with all the shame of love
That unashamed took pleasure in your joy.
You used me as a fake, erotic toy,
Not caring much what I was thinking of.
The worst is that I long for your caress.
I know you're just annoyed, which drives me mad!
But knowing how completely I've been had
Does not, alas, make me want you less.
#
You have an angel's face, a loving heart,
A peaceful, sunlit smile that lasts forever.
You are the whole, of which I am a part,
Not fully me unless we are together.
I know there is a world beyond our love
In which such thoughts are merely poetry.
But thinking of you now, I can't remove
The glow that shines on you from inside me.
How happy, happy life is when some tender
Feeling like a candle lights one's eyes.
For all my life you'll be my heart's true center,
Striding like a sun across my skies.
#
You left me, but you cannot leave my heart.
I hold you there, with or without your will.
No matter where you go, you will be part
Of me, my dearest friend and lover still.
I'll tell you of the pain I feel, and all
The things you've done that hurt and make me bleed.
And then your icy words you will recall,
And comfort me, and give me what I need.
This I can do alone, and yet the real
You lives and lies far beyond my touch.
But since my true intention is to steal
The you I loved, the real you isn't much.
Don't worry-I'll treat you tenderly:
The lovely you, you left behind with me.
#
You wrote your name upon her thigh
And looked at me. I wondered why
You hurt me so. What demon drew
You on to be so not like you?
Sometimes it seems you want to cause
Me grief, as if to test the loss
Of me, to see how much sweet pain
You need to feel alive again.
I love you, yet I fear a love
In which my function is to prove
Repeatedly you cannot lose
The thing you want but cannot choose.
I stay in hopes that you will see
Someday you cannot hope to be
Both fully loved and fully free,
For love comes only mutually.
#
You're like music playing in my head
Everywhere I go from day to day.
I try a door and think of you instead,
Not knowing where I am or what I'll say.
I live in a perpetual embrace,
Hugging the sweet thought that you are mine.
Walking through a park I touch your face,
Not caring if there's rain or bright sunshine.
The cause must be, of course, our love is new;
It can't go on like this for years and years.
I must take note of other things than you
And clear my head of smiles and grateful tears.
Yet such talk seems fantasy to me:
The world's the dream, and you reality.
#
Your fear is not surprising.
It's always ended badly:
Fury, betrayals, recriminations.
Then, for days and weeks and months
An agony worse than grief
Because you also feel like such a fool.
Love is like diving or rock climbing:
Spectacular, but your heart sticks in your mouth
Every moment you're there.
There's an ease in not caring,
A looseness in the belly.
Then, as love approaches, a knot tightens like a snake.
Being alone and free is like looking in from the
outside:
People give and get affection,
Are seized by extraordinary happiness and pain,
Live in prison and in heaven,
Deal with the necessity of working on what must be
worked out,
Life is full of love and difficulty.
Its riches cannot be gotten at except through choice.
You must enter it by loving this person or that person,
And people inevitably fall short of your hopes.
But to live and not love, and not be loved,
Is like spending your entire life alone in your room.
#
Your heart broke when I said I had to leave you
To serve our country somewhere far away.
But every day tells me how much I love you,
And how I'll mend it once I'm home to stay.
For life is but a dream, and we the dreamers,
Making what we will of what we are.
When gates clang shut, we are our own redeemers,
As love leaves for us a door ajar.
So dream with me these empty months of sorrow
As we find ways to be together still.
No longing can be brighter than tomorrow,
Nor dream less certain than our strength of will.
#
Locked up, shackled, tied down and chained 
Feeling empty, exhausted, used up and drained
Your heart unsettled with its flickering flame
Probing for answers in life's little game
I hear your cries echoing into the dark night
I could tell you everything will be alright
I feel your big lonely heart splitting apart
I could say I'll give your heart a fresh start
I hear your words begging to stop the blues
I could say I will be your knight and rescue you
I hear the tremble in your voice when you speak 
I could tell you I'd hug you and kiss your cheek
These eyes don't lie, I'll probably never be with you
My tears fall knowing there is nothing more I can do
#
So dont count your chickens before theyre hatched
Count my unselfishness not my pardon;
I will not accept any more excuses
Youre a flower stay fresh in my garden.
If you wither once more Ill cut you off
My garden be flowerless forever;
I may grow other species but not you
As for my heart it will not endeavour.
Your last chance is here and here it will stay
Be grateful my sun is brightly shining;
Forget what may appear or aspire
Not every cloud has a silver lining.
A whisper from my heart to your ears
For you my love may improve with the years;
#
One can be unhappy by oneself, but to be truly
tormented, one must love.
Love is harder to accept than to give.
To love is to embrace life. To love fully is to embrace
both death and life.
The secret of happiness is simple: Be loving, giving,
caring.
Why, then, are so many unhappy?
Because they are afraid.
Love only yourself, and you are alone.
Love only one other, and the two of you are alone.
Love only your family, and your family is alone.
Love only your nation, and your nation is alone.
There can be no communion, not even with yourself,
except through love of God.
#
So who said it was easy to keep old flames burning?
Even experts could use a little divine help now and
then.
The easy part is to go out and be brilliant as
Shakespeare.
Harder, much harder, to be the light dancing in
someone else's eyes.
Lights such as love require more faith than fuel.
Of all leaps, the most dangerous is into the mind of
your lover.
Regarding miracles: What is less explicable than
Remaining in love through the long icy anguish of
anger?
All lovers long for freedom only slightly less than they
fear it.
In the end, love burns not desire but fear.
Not one of us would be capable of keeping the fire
burning
Except for the knowledge that it is the sweetest, best,
and most beautiful thing in our lives.
#
Take it as a given that I love you,
And let the conversation go from there.
There isn't much I wouldn't do to please you,
So tell me what to do to make you care.
Tell me what it is that turns you from me,
And why you cannot cherish who I am,
And why you must insist that you still love me
When so much that I do you cannot stand.
The truth is not at all what we imagine,
Reaching regions deeper than our thoughts.
Needs are rarely troubled by opinions,
And love gives no advice unless it's sought.
So plunge into yourself as in a sea,
Then tell me truly what you want of me.
#
Tell me more, my love, how much you love me;
When I am hungry, chill me with a kiss.
Endlessly proclaim your admiration,
Never try to hide your fascination,
Though at times I may do aught amiss.
You, of course, may ask the same of me.
That you put nothing in your life above me
Will aid in me a similar dedication.
Only thus do lovers spin their bliss.
#
Thank you for staying in my life.
How could I have ushered you away?
Another person might have made me pay,
Needing the sweet vengeance of my grief.
Kindness is in everything you do.
You must love me very much to stay.
Often now, some moment of each day,
Unbidden, I am grateful I have you.
#
I praise the heart for its faithful affair.
May love confesses the few vanities;
I praise the heart in its gift and honour
It seeks more and more of humanities.
The heart blesses love and it conquers it
It holds the triumph of a secured marriage;
Nothing shall be removed neither remit
Heart and love a pair like horse and carriage.
Love overshadows all grief woe and blame
It gives the heart breathing space to adjust;
Seeking the fire of life to prompt inflame
It saves emotions from breaking and bust.
I praise the heart for its trustworthiness
I praise the heart for it has wickedness.
#
The chance of happiness equals the risk of pain.
Whenever you love, it's too good to be true.
Even so, it's truer than you believe,
Nor will you know till it vanishes again.
Time is a sea which opens where you cleave
Yet roils over what you leave behind.
For now, my love sings in the stars,
Or hisses against rocks like the sea,
Unraveling your life when you pause to grieve,
Returning with the sunlight, with the rain.
#
The difference between love and lust is:
Love is about you.
Lust is about me.
#
The first true sign of love is anger:
What we need, were likely to resent.
Each needing, needed, leaned on, leaning,
No longer free standing stone and white.
The wistful, tender fear of finity
Yields a darker shimmer of sublimity.
Now indeed some sunny, delicate blight
Inaugurates a subterranean keening.
None can turn away and not be bent,
Each in each part self, part untouched stranger.
#
There are no bars to our embrace,
No presence more than in the heart.
We live our lives with love and grace,
Together still, though still apart.
No presence more than in the heart,
No touch more salient than a dream.
Together still, though still apart,
We are more lucky than we seem.
No touch more salient than a dream,
Though dreams alone must sometimes be.
We are more lucky than we seem
If I trust you, and you trust me.
Though dreams alone must sometimes be,
We live our lives with love and grace.
If I trust you, and you trust me,
There are no bars to our embrace.
#
There are some pleasures I would try with you
So sweet I cannot tell you what they are.
For love, the dark provides a better view
Of things that words or light may often mar.
So close your eyes and let go of your will;
Let me guide you blind to ecstasy.
Open doors and let desire fill
Each orifice my tongue might let me see.
Beautys not the slave of just one sense,
But master of them all. The inner eye,
Awake to an aesthetic far more dense
Than sight alone can know, awaits your cry.
So join me in the splendors of the night
Where touch becomes our eyes, and love our light.
#
There is no life without its share of pain,
Nor can you love and not feel agony,
A need whose hunger drives you near insane,
A state in which you must, but cannot be.
There is no cure, nor anything to say,
Nor any aspirin for unhappiness.
Other friends and loves will come your way
And then pass on through death or faithlessness.
And so if you would ever dwell in joy,
You must embrace the agony of sorrow.
Time will all you love and need destroy,
But you will heal to love again tomorrow.
#
Truth is rarely an expression of love:
Honesty most often precedes pain.
In hope there is the fragrance of illusion;
Romance requires the charm of light confusion;
The best lovers are criminally insane.
Yet lies, eventually, will suck out passion.
One must be truthful if one hopes to love:
Not cruelly, but enough to ease delusion.
Each love must be broken, then built back again.
#
I praise the heart for saving me from strife.
The shadows of the past seems to avenge;
I praise the heart that kindled the my life
Hoping the innocent shall not revenge.
Surely to such fears theres hope is at hand
Truth from the heart is like a flower blooming;
It shall bud and blossom and tall should stand
Theres no way that  pure love will be losing.
Strong is love when hand in hand with just peace
The heart shall break oppression and conquer;
Transgression will be taken away with ease
Darkness changes to light and gets stronger.
I praise the heart in its gift and honour
I praise the heart for its faithful affair.
#
We met as merely words upon a screen,
Disembodied souls who found a mate
Through mind alone, and unsuspected yearning.
We fell in love the best way, sight unseen,
Pure hunger than nor feast nor flesh could sate,
Two hidden flames fair fed by phrases burning.
Most find their way by sight into the heart,
Loving first what must most quickly change
And only then what will the years endure.
We did the opposite, though not by art,
Taking steps that we did not arrange
Along a path both passionate and sure.
#
We met upon the Internet,
A friendship electronic,
Expressed alone in words and thoughts,
Inevitably platonic.
We live too far apart for us
To mingle in the flesh,
But much more close than family,
Our hearts and feelings mesh.
Your dear, dear self reveals itself
Without a voice or face.
We have our own sweet home within
Our precious cyberspace.
#
We started out as friends and now its love.
How beautiful to move so easily
From comradeship to passionate intimacy,
Pure gain, with no rough edges to remove.
This turn was nothing Id been thinking of,
No maybes or perhapses, consciously.
I knew desire, but love was not for me
Until I felt my heart from friendship move.
I never felt so happily at home
As I do now, so rich in what life brings.
Your pleasure is now mine, as mine is yours.
I never realized that my life alone
Flitted like a ghost among dead things,
Glancing in through other peoples doors.
#
What makes stars romantic? Is it the beauty
Of a night sky dark lit with diamonds?
Or the wilderness of blue-white witnesses
Staring wordless back across the abyss?
Or the fascination of forever? (For love
Is a fragment of forever lodged in the heart.)
Is it the need for two when one seems so small?
The desire to touch in the temple? The vast, lonely
Field of life in which love, too, is a light
Amidst darkness? (So many lovers scattered across
The black canopy like burning dust.)
Or is it the passion at a stars heart?
The heat of love lighting the emptiness,
Hurling its ardor across light years of sorrow
To tell us something about what yearns within?
#
When at the same time one feels joy and sorrow,
Sunlit sadness weeping golden tears,
Glad of today, but wary of tomorrow,
Half-consumed by pride and half by tears;
When one possesses what one most desires
Yet knows that one must soon that fortune lose,
Rich in all that happiness requires,
Yet poor, for what one knows one would not choose;
When the day, rolling in its glory,
Must meet its gaudy end in unsought night,
Then one must find the beauty in one's story,
And, like the sun unceasing, pour forth light.
So will I, till you come home again,
Still feel this joy resplendent through my pain.
#
When we broke up, you said you'd always love me.
Always, you said, always we'd be friends.
But soon I saw you wanted nothing of me,
And then I understood that's how it ends.
You said, "Well, it's much harder than I thought."
I guess it's always easier to lie.
You said, "Well, ask me anything you want."
But I was much too frightened to ask why.
I guess it doesn't matter why we failed,
Or why I love you after all you've done,
Or why the harshest truths must be unveiled
After the last train has come and gone.
I miss you and I love you, even though
What happened lies too deep for me to know.
#
You are everything I ever wanted.
On you my future happiness depends.
Unless I'm with you all my thoughts are haunted.
After seeing you, my unease ends.
Reason warns me that I am in danger:
Eventually, everything must fade.
My love, like yours, is flammable in anger.
Yet my trust is such, I'm not afraid.
Something in our love's more than emotion,
Underneath each thought and each desire;
Not even all the water in the ocean
Seems up to putting out this one small fire.
How could this be? Within our love is something
Immeasurable, infinite, and good.
Nothing in all life can match this one thing
Each other passion would be, if it could.
#
You don't love me, but ah! do I love you!
It kills me that right now you have another!
Each day I watch the antics of you two
Happy hopping birds and say, why bother?
But I am chained to you as fish to sea,
Or as the moon to Earth or Earth to sun.
The thought of letting go so tortures me
That I would rather let my anguish run.
I know that if I wait you will be mine.
Such love as this must sweep all walls away!
I am your natural light, and I will shine
Till due rotation turns your night to day.
Until then, this sorrow will remain:
My hope of joy must be my source of pain.
#
You had me for a night, then turned away,
Inspiring a love you didn't want.
I was a fairy you might unenchant
To show yourself that you could have your way.
And now I'm left with all the shame of love
That unashamed took pleasure in your joy.
You used me as a fake, erotic toy,
Not caring much what I was thinking of.
The worst is that I long for your caress.
I know you're just annoyed, which drives me mad!
But knowing how completely I've been had
Does not, alas, make me want you less.
#
You have an angel's face, a loving heart,
A peaceful, sunlit smile that lasts forever.
You are the whole, of which I am a part,
Not fully me unless we are together.
I know there is a world beyond our love
In which such thoughts are merely poetry.
But thinking of you now, I can't remove
The glow that shines on you from inside me.
How happy, happy life is when some tender
Feeling like a candle lights one's eyes.
For all my life you'll be my heart's true center,
Striding like a sun across my skies.
#
You left me, but you cannot leave my heart.
I hold you there, with or without your will.
No matter where you go, you will be part
Of me, my dearest friend and lover still.
I'll tell you of the pain I feel, and all
The things you've done that hurt and make me bleed.
And then your icy words you will recall,
And comfort me, and give me what I need.
This I can do alone, and yet the real
You lives and lies far beyond my touch.
But since my true intention is to steal
The you I loved, the real you isn't much.
Don't worry, I'll treat you tenderly:
The lovely you, you left behind with me.
#
You wrote your name upon her thigh
And looked at me. I wondered why
You hurt me so. What demon drew
You on to be so not like you?
Sometimes it seems you want to cause
Me grief, as if to test the loss
Of me, to see how much sweet pain
You need to feel alive again.
I love you, yet I fear a love
In which my function is to prove
Repeatedly you cannot lose
The thing you want but cannot choose.
I stay in hopes that you will see
Someday you cannot hope to be
Both fully loved and fully free,
For love comes only mutually.
#
You're like music playing in my head
Everywhere I go from day to day.
I try a door and think of you instead,
Not knowing where I am or what I'll say.
I live in a perpetual embrace,
Hugging the sweet thought that you are mine.
Walking through a park I touch your face,
Not caring if there's rain or bright sunshine.
The cause must be, of course, our love is new;
It can't go on like this for years and years.
I must take note of other things than you
And clear my head of smiles and grateful tears.
Yet such talk seems fantasy to me:
The world's the dream, and you reality.
#
Your fear is not surprising.
It's always ended badly:
Fury, betrayals, recriminations.
Then, for days and weeks and months
An agony worse than grief
Because you also feel like such a fool.
Love is like diving or rock climbing:
Spectacular, but your heart sticks in your mouth
Every moment you're there.
There's an ease in not caring,
A looseness in the belly.
Then, as love approaches, a knot tightens like a snake.
Being alone and free is like looking in from the
outside:
People give and get affection,
Are seized by extraordinary happiness and pain,
Live in prison and in heaven,
Deal with the necessity of working on what must be
worked out,
Life is full of love and difficulty.
Its riches cannot be gotten at except through choice.
You must enter it by loving this person or that person,
And people inevitably fall short of your hopes.
But to live and not love, and not be loved,
Is like spending your entire life alone in your room.
#
Your heart broke when I said I had to leave you
To serve our country somewhere far away.
But every day tells me how much I love you,
And how I'll mend it once I'm home to stay.
For life is but a dream, and we the dreamers,
Making what we will of what we are.
When gates clang shut, we are our own redeemers,
As love leaves for us a door ajar.
So dream with me these empty months of sorrow
As we find ways to be together still.
No longing can be brighter than tomorrow,
Nor dream less certain than our strength of will.
#
Tear drops rolling slow down on my face
Trying to forget my feelings of love,
I suffered slighting on my disgrace.
You walked away, I had to observe.
Your disrespect crushed my feelings,
I wept over years with weeping willow.
Wounded heart yelled for healings.
On sleepless night tears soaked my pillow.
Could not recollect when heart turned hard,
Tears withered way, I totally forgot.
Suddenly you came and showed your regard.
Tears rolled down seeing you in front.
You are begging my love, I am puzzled and confused.
I must forgive and forget once you had refused.
#
The little red jewel in the bottom of your wineglass
is so lovely I cannot rinse it out,
so I go into the cool and grassy air to smoke. 
Which is your warmly lit house
past which no soldiers march to take the country back?
When you reached across the table to touch my hand
is not attainable. I cannot recapture it.
And no gunners lean on their artillery at the citys edge,
looking our direction,
having shot the sky full of bright holes. 
The light bleeds from them
and it always will. 
Long ago, they captured our city
and now they are our neighbors,
going about their business like they were
one of us.
Soon, like you, they will be asleep,
having washed the dishes and turned out the kitchen lights.
When I inhale, smoke occupies me. 
When I exhale
By morning the wine in the bottom of your glass
will have clotted.
Im sorry I called it a jewel.
It is not the soldiers who have shot me full of holes.
It is not light that pours out.
Love did this.
I was filled with wine.
Now I am drained of it. 
#
Theyre both convinced
that a sudden passion joined them.
Such certainty is beautiful,
but uncertainty is more beautiful still.
Since theyd never met before, theyre sure
that thered been nothing between them.
But whats the word from the streets, staircases, hallways
perhaps theyve passed by each other a million times?
I want to ask them
if they dont remember
a moment face to face
in some revolving door?
perhaps a sorry muttered in a crowd?
a curt wrong number caught in the receiver?
but I know the answer.
No, they dont remember.
Theyd be amazed to hear
that Chance has been toying with them
now for years.
Not quite ready yet
to become their Destiny,
it pushed them close, drove them apart,
it barred their path,
stifling a laugh,
and then leaped aside.
There were signs and signals,
even if they couldnt read them yet.
Perhaps three years ago
or just last Tuesday
a certain leaf fluttered
from one shoulder to another?
Something was dropped and then picked up.
Who knows, maybe the ball that vanished
into childhoods thicket?
There were doorknobs and doorbells
where one touch had covered another
beforehand.
Suitcases checked and standing side by side.
One night, perhaps, the same dream,
grown hazy by morning.
Every beginning
is only a sequel, after all,
and the book of events
is always open halfway through.
#
Sense how joy feels in vivid terms,
Trust sparkles grand the pleasant fill;
Ask love to heal with ample germs,
Reap precious trends in fond goodwill;
Take time to laugh with simple flair.
Work with fine poise in spicy cheer,
Ink words enough in calm affairs;
Toss happy voice with passion here,
Heed sounds that come to echo choice.
Hurl song and dance with feisty ease,
Exult in sums despite stray noise;
Allow deep trance to anchor bliss,
Rise to the dream of lovely fest,
Thrill that rich theme in journey quest.
#
I can not write any good words this saddest day
no rice in the pudding , no pitchfork in the hay.
Morning dawned with its usual bright shining glee
no sunny rays daring to blast this heart in me.
There were bees in the garden, sunshine on the corn
kids playing in the yard, me sad at being born.
No clouds flying, no hard pelting rain to crash down
yet here I sit my forlorn face wearing a frown.
My thoughts wander into happy days in my past
great loves destroyed, treasures not ever meant to last.
There comes the black cloud, dark one in its fated role
another curse eating my tired, unhappy soul.
I can not write any good words this saddest day
no rice in the pudding , no pitchfork in the hay.
#
Prize that sure feel where pleasure calls,
Live with your choice of wonder here;
Expect sure will to rise and fall,
Ask for fond poise to gather cheer;
Seek to now grow life's endless flow,
Urge heart and mind to sync with zest;
Ride love's grand show and know you know,
Enrich each find with ample fest;
Succeed wise wit as pleasures greet.
Outlive fine play and outlast pain,
Rich tokens fit as moments meet;
Believe and pray to anchor gain,
Instruct soul dear with untold bliss,
Trust in good cheer to glimpse sure peace.
#
I praise the heart for love shared by hope
Happiness shall be all over the home
I praise the heart for with feuds I can cope
My family joys shall obtain love syndrome.
I who built a strong foundation Im pleased
As the deep and absorption of love dwell;
All the hearts under one roof have joy seized
Now all the family unite as well.
Voices sings distinctly and praise the heart
As all the fears and doubts return to haunt;
The awestruck love watches for a new start
Yet we act superbly and nonchalant.
I praise the heart that kindled the my life
I praise the heart for saving me from strife.
#