From fairest creatures we desire increase,
That thereby beauty's rose might never die,
But as the riper should by time decease,
His tender heir might bear his memory:
But thou, contracted to thine own bright eyes,
Feed'st thy light'st flame with self-substantial fuel,
Making a famine where abundance lies,
Thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel.
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring,
Within thine own bud buriest thy content
And, tender churl, makest waste in niggarding.
Pity the world, or else this glutton be,
To eat the world's due, by the grave and thee.

When forty winters shall beseige thy brow,
And dig deep trenches in thy beauty's field,
Thy youth's proud livery, so gazed on now,
Will be a tatter'd weed, of small worth held:
Then being ask'd where all thy beauty lies,
Where all the treasure of thy lusty days,
To say, within thine own deep-sunken eyes,
Were an all-eating shame and thriftless praise.
How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use,
If thou couldst answer 'This fair child of mine
Shall sum my count and make my old excuse,'
Proving his beauty by succession thine!
This were to be new made when thou art old,
And see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold.

Look in thy glass, and tell the face thou viewest
Now is the time that face should form another;
Whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest,
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
For where is she so fair whose unear'd womb
Disdains the tillage of thy husbandry?
Or who is he so fond will be the tomb
Of his self-love, to stop posterity?
Thou art thy mother's glass, and she in thee
Calls back the lovely April of her prime:
So thou through windows of thine age shall see
Despite of wrinkles this thy golden time.
But if thou live, remember'd not to be,
Die single, and thine image dies with thee.

Unthrifty loveliness, why dost thou spend
Upon thyself thy beauty's legacy?
Nature's bequest gives nothing but doth lend,
And being frank she lends to those are free.
Then, beauteous niggard, why dost thou abuse
The bounteous largess given thee to give?
Profitless usurer, why dost thou use
So great a sum of sums, yet canst not live?
For having traffic with thyself alone,
Thou of thyself thy sweet self dost deceive.
Then how, when nature calls thee to be gone,
What acceptable audit canst thou leave?
Thy unused beauty must be tomb'd with thee,
Which, used, lives th' executor to be.

Those hours, that with gentle work did frame
The lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell,
Will play the tyrants to the very same
And that unfair which fairly doth excel:
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there;
Sap cheque'd with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
Beauty o'ersnow'd and bareness every where:
Then, were not summer's distillation left,
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
Beauty's effect with beauty were bereft,
Nor it nor no remembrance what it was:
But flowers distill'd though they with winter meet,
Leese but their show; their substance still lives sweet.

Then let not winter's ragged hand deface
In thee thy summer, ere thou be distill'd:
Make sweet some vial; treasure thou some place
With beauty's treasure, ere it be self-kill'd.
That use is not forbidden usury,
Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
That's for thyself to breed another thee,
Or ten times happier, be it ten for one;
Ten times thyself were happier than thou art,
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee:
Then what could death do, if thou shouldst depart,
Leaving thee living in posterity?
Be not self-will'd, for thou art much too fair
To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.

Lo! in the orient when the gracious light
Lifts up his burning head, each under eye
Doth homage to his new-appearing sight,
Serving with looks his sacred majesty;
And having climb'd the steep-up heavenly hill,
Resembling strong youth in his middle age,
yet mortal looks adore his beauty still,
Attending on his golden pilgrimage;
But when from highmost pitch, with weary car,
Like feeble age, he reeleth from the day,
The eyes, 'fore duteous, now converted are
From his low tract and look another way:
So thou, thyself out-going in thy noon,
Unlook'd on diest, unless thou get a son.

Music to hear, why hear'st thou music sadly?
Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy.
Why lovest thou that which thou receivest not gladly,
Or else receivest with pleasure thine annoy?
If the true concord of well-tuned sounds,
By unions married, do offend thine ear,
They do but sweetly chide thee, who confounds
In singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear.
Mark how one string, sweet husband to another,
Strikes each in each by mutual ordering,
Resembling sire and child and happy mother
Who all in one, one pleasing note do sing:
Whose speechless song, being many, seeming one,
Sings this to thee: 'thou single wilt prove none.'

Is it for fear to wet a widow's eye
That thou consumest thyself in single life?
Ah! if thou issueless shalt hap to die.
The world will wail thee, like a makeless wife;
The world will be thy widow and still weep
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
When every private widow well may keep
By children's eyes her husband's shape in mind.
Look, what an unthrift in the world doth spend
Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
But beauty's waste hath in the world an end,
And kept unused, the user so destroys it.
No love toward others in that bosom sits
That on himself such murderous shame commits.

For shame! deny that thou bear'st love to any,
Who for thyself art so unprovident.
Grant, if thou wilt, thou art beloved of many,
But that thou none lovest is most evident;
For thou art so possess'd with murderous hate
That 'gainst thyself thou stick'st not to conspire.
Seeking that beauteous roof to ruinate
Which to repair should be thy chief desire.
O, change thy thought, that I may change my mind!
Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?
Be, as thy presence is, gracious and kind,
Or to thyself at least kind-hearted prove:
Make thee another self, for love of me,
That beauty still may live in thine or thee.

As fast as thou shalt wane, so fast thou growest
In one of thine, from that which thou departest;
And that fresh blood which youngly thou bestowest
Thou mayst call thine when thou from youth convertest.
Herein lives wisdom, beauty and increase:
Without this, folly, age and cold decay:
If all were minded so, the times should cease
And threescore year would make the world away.
Let those whom Nature hath not made for store,
Harsh featureless and rude, barrenly perish:
Look, whom she best endow'd she gave the more;
Which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish:
She carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby
Thou shouldst print more, not let that copy die.

When I do count the clock that tells the time,
And see the brave day sunk in hideous night;
When I behold the violet past prime,
And sable curls all silver'd o'er with white;
When lofty trees I see barren of leaves
Which erst from heat did canopy the herd,
And summer's green all girded up in sheaves
Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard,
Then of thy beauty do I question make,
That thou among the wastes of time must go,
Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake
And die as fast as they see others grow;
And nothing 'gainst Time's scythe can make defence
Save breed, to brave him when he takes thee hence.

O, that you were yourself! but, love, you are
No longer yours than you yourself here live:
Against this coming end you should prepare,
And your sweet semblance to some other give.
So should that beauty which you hold in lease
Find no determination: then you were
Yourself again after yourself's decease,
When your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.
Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
Which husbandry in honour might uphold
Against the stormy gusts of winter's day
And barren rage of death's eternal cold?
O, none but unthrifts! Dear my love, you know
You had a father: let your son say so.

Not from the stars do I my judgment pluck;
And yet methinks I have astronomy,
But not to tell of good or evil luck,
Of plagues, of dearths, or seasons' quality;
Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell,
Pointing to each his thunder, rain and wind,
Or say with princes if it shall go well,
By oft predict that I in heaven find:
But from thine eyes my knowledge I derive,
And, constant stars, in them I read such art
As truth and beauty shall together thrive,
If from thyself to store thou wouldst convert;
Or else of thee this I prognosticate:
Thy end is truth's and beauty's doom and date.

When I consider every thing that grows
Holds in perfection but a little moment,
That this huge stage presenteth nought but shows
Whereon the stars in secret influence comment;
When I perceive that men as plants increase,
Cheered and cheque'd even by the self-same sky,
Vaunt in their youthful sap, at height decrease,
And wear their brave state out of memory;
Then the conceit of this inconstant stay
Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,
Where wasteful Time debateth with Decay,
To change your day of youth to sullied night;
And all in war with Time for love of you,
As he takes from you, I engraft you new.

But wherefore do not you a mightier way
Make war upon this bloody tyrant, Time?
And fortify yourself in your decay
With means more blessed than my barren rhyme?
Now stand you on the top of happy hours,
And many maiden gardens yet unset
With virtuous wish would bear your living flowers,
Much liker than your painted counterfeit:
So should the lines of life that life repair,
Which this, Time's pencil, or my pupil pen,
Neither in inward worth nor outward fair,
Can make you live yourself in eyes of men.
To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
And you must live, drawn by your own sweet skill.

Who will believe my verse in time to come,
If it were fill'd with your most high deserts?
Though yet, heaven knows, it is but as a tomb
Which hides your life and shows not half your parts.
If I could write the beauty of your eyes
And in fresh numbers number all your graces,
The age to come would say 'This poet lies:
Such heavenly touches ne'er touch'd earthly faces.'
So should my papers yellow'd with their age
Be scorn'd like old men of less truth than tongue,
And your true rights be term'd a poet's rage
And stretched metre of an antique song:
But were some child of yours alive that time,
You should live twice; in it and in my rhyme.

Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date:
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimm'd;
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimm'd;
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou owest;
Nor shall Death brag thou wander'st in his shade,
When in eternal lines to time thou growest:
So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
So long lives this and this gives life to thee.

Devouring Time, blunt thou the lion's paws,
And make the earth devour her own sweet brood;
Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce tiger's jaws,
And burn the long-lived phoenix in her blood;
Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleets,
And do whate'er thou wilt, swift-footed Time,
To the wide world and all her fading sweets;
But I forbid thee one most heinous crime:
O, carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow,
Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen;
Him in thy course untainted do allow
For beauty's pattern to succeeding men.
Yet, do thy worst, old Time: despite thy wrong,
My love shall in my verse ever live young.

A woman's face with Nature's own hand painted
Hast thou, the master-mistress of my passion;
A woman's gentle heart, but not acquainted
With shifting change, as is false women's fashion;
An eye more bright than theirs, less false in rolling,
Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth;
A man in hue, all 'hues' in his controlling,
Much steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.
And for a woman wert thou first created;
Till Nature, as she wrought thee, fell a-doting,
And by addition me of thee defeated,
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
But since she prick'd thee out for women's pleasure,
Mine be thy love and thy love's use their treasure.

So is it not with me as with that Muse
Stirr'd by a painted beauty to his verse,
Who heaven itself for ornament doth use
And every fair with his fair doth rehearse
Making a couplement of proud compare,
With sun and moon, with earth and sea's rich gems,
With April's first-born flowers, and all things rare
That heaven's air in this huge rondure hems.
O' let me, true in love, but truly write,
And then believe me, my love is as fair
As any mother's child, though not so bright
As those gold candles fix'd in heaven's air:
Let them say more than like of hearsay well;
I will not praise that purpose not to sell.

My glass shall not persuade me I am old,
So long as youth and thou are of one date;
But when in thee time's furrows I behold,
Then look I death my days should expiate.
For all that beauty that doth cover thee
Is but the seemly raiment of my heart,
Which in thy breast doth live, as thine in me:
How can I then be elder than thou art?
O, therefore, love, be of thyself so wary
As I, not for myself, but for thee will;
Bearing thy heart, which I will keep so chary
As tender nurse her babe from faring ill.
Presume not on thy heart when mine is slain;
Thou gavest me thine, not to give back again.

As an unperfect actor on the stage
Who with his fear is put besides his part,
Or some fierce thing replete with too much rage,
Whose strength's abundance weakens his own heart.
So I, for fear of trust, forget to say
The perfect ceremony of love's rite,
And in mine own love's strength seem to decay,
O'ercharged with burden of mine own love's might.
O, let my books be then the eloquence
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,
Who plead for love and look for recompense
More than that tongue that more hath more express'd.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ:
To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.

Mine eye hath play'd the painter and hath stell'd
Thy beauty's form in table of my heart;
My body is the frame wherein 'tis held,
And perspective it is the painter's art.
For through the painter must you see his skill,
To find where your true image pictured lies;
Which in my bosom's shop is hanging still,
That hath his windows glazed with thine eyes.
Now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done:
Mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and thine for me
Are windows to my breast, where-through the sun
Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee;
Yet eyes this cunning want to grace their art;
They draw but what they see, know not the heart.

Let those who are in favour with their stars
Of public honour and proud titles boast,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Unlook'd for joy in that I honour most.
Great princes' favourites their fair leaves spread
But as the marigold at the sun's eye,
And in themselves their pride lies buried,
For at a frown they in their glory die.
The painful warrior famoused for fight,
After a thousand victories once foil'd,
Is from the book of honour razed quite,
And all the rest forgot for which he toil'd:
Then happy I, that love and am beloved
Where I may not remove nor be removed.

Lord of my love, to whom in vassalage
Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit,
To thee I send this written embassage,
To witness duty, not to show my wit:
Duty so great, which wit so poor as mine
May make seem bare, in wanting words to show it,
But that I hope some good conceit of thine
In thy soul's thought, all naked, will bestow it;
Till whatsoever star that guides my moving
Points on me graciously with fair aspect
And puts apparel on my tatter'd loving,
To show me worthy of thy sweet respect:
Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee;
Till then not show my head where thou mayst prove me.

Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed,
The dear repose for limbs with travel tired;
But then begins a journey in my head,
To work my mind, when body's work's expired:
For then my thoughts, from far where I abide,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
And keep my drooping eyelids open wide,
Looking on darkness which the blind do see
Save that my soul's imaginary sight
Presents thy shadow to my sightless view,
Which, like a jewel hung in ghastly night,
Makes black night beauteous and her old face new.
Lo! thus, by day my limbs, by night my mind,
For thee and for myself no quiet find.

How can I then return in happy plight,
That am debarr'd the benefit of rest?
When day's oppression is not eased by night,
But day by night, and night by day, oppress'd?
And each, though enemies to either's reign,
Do in consent shake hands to torture me;
The one by toil, the other to complain
How far I toil, still farther off from thee.
I tell the day, to please them thou art bright
And dost him grace when clouds do blot the heaven:
So flatter I the swart-complexion'd night,
When sparkling stars twire not thou gild'st the even.
But day doth daily draw my sorrows longer
And night doth nightly make grief's strength seem stronger.

When, in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries
And look upon myself and curse my fate,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possess'd,
Desiring this man's art and that man's scope,
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven's gate;
For thy sweet love remember'd such wealth brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.

When to the sessions of sweet silent thought
I summon up remembrance of things past,
I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought,
And with old woes new wail my dear time's waste:
Then can I drown an eye, unused to flow,
For precious friends hid in death's dateless night,
And weep afresh love's long since cancell'd woe,
And moan the expense of many a vanish'd sight:
Then can I grieve at grievances foregone,
And heavily from woe to woe tell o'er
The sad account of fore-bemoaned moan,
Which I new pay as if not paid before.
But if the while I think on thee, dear friend,
All losses are restored and sorrows end.

Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts,
Which I by lacking have supposed dead,
And there reigns love and all love's loving parts,
And all those friends which I thought buried.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye
As interest of the dead, which now appear
But things removed that hidden in thee lie!
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
That due of many now is thine alone:
Their images I loved I view in thee,
And thou, all they, hast all the all of me.

If thou survive my well-contented day,
When that churl Death my bones with dust shall cover,
And shalt by fortune once more re-survey
These poor rude lines of thy deceased lover,
Compare them with the bettering of the time,
And though they be outstripp'd by every pen,
Reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme,
Exceeded by the height of happier men.
O, then vouchsafe me but this loving thought:
'Had my friend's Muse grown with this growing age,
A dearer birth than this his love had brought,
To march in ranks of better equipage:
But since he died and poets better prove,
Theirs for their style I'll read, his for his love.'

Full many a glorious morning have I seen
Flatter the mountain-tops with sovereign eye,
Kissing with golden face the meadows green,
Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy;
Anon permit the basest clouds to ride
With ugly rack on his celestial face,
And from the forlorn world his visage hide,
Stealing unseen to west with this disgrace:
Even so my sun one early morn did shine
With all triumphant splendor on my brow;
But out, alack! he was but one hour mine;
The region cloud hath mask'd him from me now.
Yet him for this my love no whit disdaineth;
Suns of the world may stain when heaven's sun staineth.

Why didst thou promise such a beauteous day,
And make me travel forth without my cloak,
To let base clouds o'ertake me in my way,
Hiding thy bravery in their rotten smoke?
'Tis not enough that through the cloud thou break,
To dry the rain on my storm-beaten face,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals the wound and cures not the disgrace:
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss:
The offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
To him that bears the strong offence's cross.
Ah! but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
And they are rich and ransom all ill deeds.

No more be grieved at that which thou hast done:
Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud;
Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,
And loathsome canker lives in sweetest bud.
All men make faults, and even I in this,
Authorizing thy trespass with compare,
Myself corrupting, salving thy amiss,
Excusing thy sins more than thy sins are;
For to thy sensual fault I bring in sense--
Thy adverse party is thy advocate--
And 'gainst myself a lawful plea commence:
Such civil war is in my love and hate
That I an accessary needs must be
To that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.

Let me confess that we two must be twain,
Although our undivided loves are one:
So shall those blots that do with me remain
Without thy help by me be borne alone.
In our two loves there is but one respect,
Though in our lives a separable spite,
Which though it alter not love's sole effect,
Yet doth it steal sweet hours from love's delight.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honour me,
Unless thou take that honour from thy name:
But do not so; I love thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.

As a decrepit father takes delight
To see his active child do deeds of youth,
So I, made lame by fortune's dearest spite,
Take all my comfort of thy worth and truth.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
Or any of these all, or all, or more,
Entitled in thy parts do crowned sit,
I make my love engrafted to this store:
So then I am not lame, poor, nor despised,
Whilst that this shadow doth such substance give
That I in thy abundance am sufficed
And by a part of all thy glory live.
Look, what is best, that best I wish in thee:
This wish I have; then ten times happy me!

How can my Muse want subject to invent,
While thou dost breathe, that pour'st into my verse
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent
For every vulgar paper to rehearse?
O, give thyself the thanks, if aught in me
Worthy perusal stand against thy sight;
For who's so dumb that cannot write to thee,
When thou thyself dost give invention light?
Be thou the tenth Muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
If my slight Muse do please these curious days,
The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.

O, how thy worth with manners may I sing,
When thou art all the better part of me?
What can mine own praise to mine own self bring?
And what is 't but mine own when I praise thee?
Even for this let us divided live,
And our dear love lose name of single one,
That by this separation I may give
That due to thee which thou deservest alone.
O absence, what a torment wouldst thou prove,
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive,
And that thou teachest how to make one twain,
By praising him here who doth hence remain!

Take all my loves, my love, yea, take them all;
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call;
All mine was thine before thou hadst this more.
Then if for my love thou my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my love thou usest;
But yet be blamed, if thou thyself deceivest
By wilful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robbery, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet, love knows, it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
Kill me with spites; yet we must not be foes.

Those petty wrongs that liberty commits,
When I am sometime absent from thy heart,
Thy beauty and thy years full well befits,
For still temptation follows where thou art.
Gentle thou art and therefore to be won,
Beauteous thou art, therefore to be assailed;
And when a woman woos, what woman's son
Will sourly leave her till she have prevailed?
Ay me! but yet thou mightest my seat forbear,
And chide try beauty and thy straying youth,
Who lead thee in their riot even there
Where thou art forced to break a twofold truth,
Hers by thy beauty tempting her to thee,
Thine, by thy beauty being false to me.

That thou hast her, it is not all my grief,
And yet it may be said I loved her dearly;
That she hath thee, is of my wailing chief,
A loss in love that touches me more nearly.
Loving offenders, thus I will excuse ye:
Thou dost love her, because thou knowst I love her;
And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
Suffering my friend for my sake to approve her.
If I lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,
And losing her, my friend hath found that loss;
Both find each other, and I lose both twain,
And both for my sake lay on me this cross:
But here's the joy; my friend and I are one;
Sweet flattery! then she loves but me alone.

When most I wink, then do mine eyes best see,
For all the day they view things unrespected;
But when I sleep, in dreams they look on thee,
And darkly bright are bright in dark directed.
Then thou, whose shadow shadows doth make bright,
How would thy shadow's form form happy show
To the clear day with thy much clearer light,
When to unseeing eyes thy shade shines so!
How would, I say, mine eyes be blessed made
By looking on thee in the living day,
When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade
Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth stay!
All days are nights to see till I see thee,
And nights bright days when dreams do show thee me.

If the dull substance of my flesh were thought,
Injurious distance should not stop my way;
For then despite of space I would be brought,
From limits far remote where thou dost stay.
No matter then although my foot did stand
Upon the farthest earth removed from thee;
For nimble thought can jump both sea and land
As soon as think the place where he would be.
But ah! thought kills me that I am not thought,
To leap large lengths of miles when thou art gone,
But that so much of earth and water wrought
I must attend time's leisure with my moan,
Receiving nought by elements so slow
But heavy tears, badges of either's woe.

The other two, slight air and purging fire,
Are both with thee, wherever I abide;
The first my thought, the other my desire,
These present-absent with swift motion slide.
For when these quicker elements are gone
In tender embassy of love to thee,
My life, being made of four, with two alone
Sinks down to death, oppress'd with melancholy;
Until life's composition be recured
By those swift messengers return'd from thee,
Who even but now come back again, assured
Of thy fair health, recounting it to me:
This told, I joy; but then no longer glad,
I send them back again and straight grow sad.

Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war
How to divide the conquest of thy sight;
Mine eye my heart thy picture's sight would bar,
My heart mine eye the freedom of that right.
My heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie--
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes--
But the defendant doth that plea deny
And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
To 'cide this title is impanneled
A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart,
And by their verdict is determined
The clear eye's moiety and the dear heart's part:
As thus; mine eye's due is thy outward part,
And my heart's right thy inward love of heart.

Betwixt mine eye and heart a league is took,
And each doth good turns now unto the other:
When that mine eye is famish'd for a look,
Or heart in love with sighs himself doth smother,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart;
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part:
So, either by thy picture or my love,
Thyself away art resent still with me;
For thou not farther than my thoughts canst move,
And I am still with them and they with thee;
Or, if they sleep, thy picture in my sight
Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.

How careful was I, when I took my way,
Each trifle under truest bars to thrust,
That to my use it might unused stay
From hands of falsehood, in sure wards of trust!
But thou, to whom my jewels trifles are,
Most worthy of comfort, now my greatest grief,
Thou, best of dearest and mine only care,
Art left the prey of every vulgar thief.
Thee have I not lock'd up in any chest,
Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part;
And even thence thou wilt be stol'n, I fear,
For truth proves thievish for a prize so dear.

Against that time, if ever that time come,
When I shall see thee frown on my defects,
When as thy love hath cast his utmost sum,
Call'd to that audit by advised respects;
Against that time when thou shalt strangely pass
And scarcely greet me with that sun thine eye,
When love, converted from the thing it was,
Shall reasons find of settled gravity,--
Against that time do I ensconce me here
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
And this my hand against myself uprear,
To guard the lawful reasons on thy part:
To leave poor me thou hast the strength of laws,
Since why to love I can allege no cause.

How heavy do I journey on the way,
When what I seek, my weary travel's end,
Doth teach that ease and that repose to say
'Thus far the miles are measured from thy friend!'
The beast that bears me, tired with my woe,
Plods dully on, to bear that weight in me,
As if by some instinct the wretch did know
His rider loved not speed, being made from thee:
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on
That sometimes anger thrusts into his hide;
Which heavily he answers with a groan,
More sharp to me than spurring to his side;
For that same groan doth put this in my mind;
My grief lies onward and my joy behind.

Thus can my love excuse the slow offence
Of my dull bearer when from thee I speed:
From where thou art why should I haste me thence?
Till I return, of posting is no need.
O, what excuse will my poor beast then find,
When swift extremity can seem but slow?
Then should I spur, though mounted on the wind;
In winged speed no motion shall I know:
Then can no horse with my desire keep pace;
Therefore desire of perfect'st love being made,
Shall neigh--no dull flesh--in his fiery race;
But love, for love, thus shall excuse my jade;
Since from thee going he went wilful-slow,
Towards thee I'll run, and give him leave to go.

So am I as the rich, whose blessed key
Can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,
The which he will not every hour survey,
For blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure.
Therefore are feasts so solemn and so rare,
Since, seldom coming, in the long year set,
Like stones of worth they thinly placed are,
Or captain jewels in the carcanet.
So is the time that keeps you as my chest,
Or as the wardrobe which the robe doth hide,
To make some special instant special blest,
By new unfolding his imprison'd pride.
Blessed are you, whose worthiness gives scope,
Being had, to triumph, being lack'd, to hope.

What is your substance, whereof are you made,
That millions of strange shadows on you tend?
Since every one hath, every one, one shade,
And you, but one, can every shadow lend.
Describe Adonis, and the counterfeit
Is poorly imitated after you;
On Helen's cheek all art of beauty set,
And you in Grecian tires are painted new:
Speak of the spring and foison of the year;
The one doth shadow of your beauty show,
The other as your bounty doth appear;
And you in every blessed shape we know.
In all external grace you have some part,
But you like none, none you, for constant heart.

O, how much more doth beauty beauteous seem
By that sweet ornament which truth doth give!
The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem
For that sweet odour which doth in it live.
The canker-blooms have full as deep a dye
As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
Hang on such thorns and play as wantonly
When summer's breath their masked buds discloses:
But, for their virtue only is their show,
They live unwoo'd and unrespected fade,
Die to themselves. Sweet roses do not so;
Of their sweet deaths are sweetest odours made:
And so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
When that shall fade, my verse distills your truth.

Not marble, nor the gilded monuments
Of princes, shall outlive this powerful rhyme;
But you shall shine more bright in these contents
Than unswept stone besmear'd with sluttish time.
When wasteful war shall statues overturn,
And broils root out the work of masonry,
Nor Mars his sword nor war's quick fire shall burn
The living record of your memory.
'Gainst death and all-oblivious enmity
Shall you pace forth; your praise shall still find room
Even in the eyes of all posterity
That wear this world out to the ending doom.
So, till the judgment that yourself arise,
You live in this, and dwell in lover's eyes.

Sweet love, renew thy force; be it not said
Thy edge should blunter be than appetite,
Which but to-day by feeding is allay'd,
To-morrow sharpen'd in his former might:
So, love, be thou; although to-day thou fill
Thy hungry eyes even till they wink with fullness,
To-morrow see again, and do not kill
The spirit of love with a perpetual dullness.
Let this sad interim like the ocean be
Which parts the shore, where two contracted new
Come daily to the banks, that, when they see
Return of love, more blest may be the view;
Else call it winter, which being full of care
Makes summer's welcome thrice more wish'd, more rare.

Being your slave, what should I do but tend
Upon the hours and times of your desire?
I have no precious time at all to spend,
Nor services to do, till you require.
Nor dare I chide the world-without-end hour
Whilst I, my sovereign, watch the clock for you,
Nor think the bitterness of absence sour
When you have bid your servant once adieu;
Nor dare I question with my jealous thought
Where you may be, or your affairs suppose,
But, like a sad slave, stay and think of nought
Save, where you are how happy you make those.
So true a fool is love that in your will,
Though you do any thing, he thinks no ill.

That god forbid that made me first your slave,
I should in thought control your times of pleasure,
Or at your hand the account of hours to crave,
Being your vassal, bound to stay your leisure!
O, let me suffer, being at your beck,
The imprison'd absence of your liberty;
And patience, tame to sufferance, bide each cheque,
Without accusing you of injury.
Be where you list, your charter is so strong
That you yourself may privilege your time
To what you will; to you it doth belong
Yourself to pardon of self-doing crime.
I am to wait, though waiting so be hell;
Not blame your pleasure, be it ill or well.

If there be nothing new, but that which is
Hath been before, how are our brains beguiled,
Which, labouring for invention, bear amiss
The second burden of a former child!
O, that record could with a backward look,
Even of five hundred courses of the sun,
Show me your image in some antique book,
Since mind at first in character was done!
That I might see what the old world could say
To this composed wonder of your frame;
Whether we are mended, or whether better they,
Or whether revolution be the same.
O, sure I am, the wits of former days
To subjects worse have given admiring praise.

Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,
So do our minutes hasten to their end;
Each changing place with that which goes before,
In sequent toil all forwards do contend.
Nativity, once in the main of light,
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crown'd,
Crooked elipses 'gainst his glory fight,
And Time that gave doth now his gift confound.
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth
And delves the parallels in beauty's brow,
Feeds on the rarities of nature's truth,
And nothing stands but for his scythe to mow:
And yet to times in hope my verse shall stand,
Praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand.

Is it thy will thy image should keep open
My heavy eyelids to the weary night?
Dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken,
While shadows like to thee do mock my sight?
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
So far from home into my deeds to pry,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
O, no! thy love, though much, is not so great:
It is my love that keeps mine eye awake;
Mine own true love that doth my rest defeat,
To play the watchman ever for thy sake:
For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
From me far off, with others all too near.

Sin of self-love possesseth all mine eye
And all my soul and all my every part;
And for this sin there is no remedy,
It is so grounded inward in my heart.
Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,
No shape so true, no truth of such account;
And for myself mine own worth do define,
As I all other in all worths surmount.
But when my glass shows me myself indeed,
Beated and chopp'd with tann'd antiquity,
Mine own self-love quite contrary I read;
Self so self-loving were iniquity.
'Tis thee, myself, that for myself I praise,
Painting my age with beauty of thy days.

Against my love shall be, as I am now,
With Time's injurious hand crush'd and o'er-worn;
When hours have drain'd his blood and fill'd his brow
With lines and wrinkles; when his youthful morn
Hath travell'd on to age's steepy night,
And all those beauties whereof now he's king
Are vanishing or vanish'd out of sight,
Stealing away the treasure of his spring;
For such a time do I now fortify
Against confounding age's cruel knife,
That he shall never cut from memory
My sweet love's beauty, though my lover's life:
His beauty shall in these black lines be seen,
And they shall live, and he in them still green.

When I have seen by Time's fell hand defaced
The rich proud cost of outworn buried age;
When sometime lofty towers I see down-razed
And brass eternal slave to mortal rage;
When I have seen the hungry ocean gain
Advantage on the kingdom of the shore,
And the firm soil win of the watery main,
Increasing store with loss and loss with store;
When I have seen such interchange of state,
Or state itself confounded to decay;
Ruin hath taught me thus to ruminate,
That Time will come and take my love away.
This thought is as a death, which cannot choose
But weep to have that which it fears to lose.

Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea,
But sad mortality o'er-sways their power,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O, how shall summer's honey breath hold out
Against the wreckful siege of battering days,
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
Nor gates of steel so strong, but Time decays?
O fearful meditation! where, alack,
Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back?
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
O, none, unless this miracle have might,
That in black ink my love may still shine bright.

Tired with all these, for restful death I cry,
As, to behold desert a beggar born,
And needy nothing trimm'd in jollity,
And purest faith unhappily forsworn,
And guilded honour shamefully misplaced,
And maiden virtue rudely strumpeted,
And right perfection wrongfully disgraced,
And strength by limping sway disabled,
And art made tongue-tied by authority,
And folly doctor-like controlling skill,
And simple truth miscall'd simplicity,
And captive good attending captain ill:
Tired with all these, from these would I be gone,
Save that, to die, I leave my love alone.

Ah! wherefore with infection should he live,
And with his presence grace impiety,
That sin by him advantage should achieve
And lace itself with his society?
Why should false painting imitate his cheek
And steal dead seeing of his living hue?
Why should poor beauty indirectly seek
Roses of shadow, since his rose is true?
Why should he live, now Nature bankrupt is,
Beggar'd of blood to blush through lively veins?
For she hath no exchequer now but his,
And, proud of many, lives upon his gains.
O, him she stores, to show what wealth she had
In days long since, before these last so bad.

Thus is his cheek the map of days outworn,
When beauty lived and died as flowers do now,
Before the bastard signs of fair were born,
Or durst inhabit on a living brow;
Before the golden tresses of the dead,
The right of sepulchres, were shorn away,
To live a second life on second head;
Ere beauty's dead fleece made another gay:
In him those holy antique hours are seen,
Without all ornament, itself and true,
Making no summer of another's green,
Robbing no old to dress his beauty new;
And him as for a map doth Nature store,
To show false Art what beauty was of yore.

Those parts of thee that the world's eye doth view
Want nothing that the thought of hearts can mend;
All tongues, the voice of souls, give thee that due,
Uttering bare truth, even so as foes commend.
Thy outward thus with outward praise is crown'd;
But those same tongues that give thee so thine own
In other accents do this praise confound
By seeing farther than the eye hath shown.
They look into the beauty of thy mind,
And that, in guess, they measure by thy deeds;
Then, churls, their thoughts, although their eyes were kind,
To thy fair flower add the rank smell of weeds:
But why thy odour matcheth not thy show,
The solve is this, that thou dost common grow.

That thou art blamed shall not be thy defect,
For slander's mark was ever yet the fair;
The ornament of beauty is suspect,
A crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
So thou be good, slander doth but approve
Thy worth the greater, being woo'd of time;
For canker vice the sweetest buds doth love,
And thou present'st a pure unstained prime.
Thou hast pass'd by the ambush of young days,
Either not assail'd or victor being charged;
Yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise,
To tie up envy evermore enlarged:
If some suspect of ill mask'd not thy show,
Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.

No longer mourn for me when I am dead
Then you shall hear the surly sullen bell
Give warning to the world that I am fled
From this vile world, with vilest worms to dwell:
Nay, if you read this line, remember not
The hand that writ it; for I love you so
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot
If thinking on me then should make you woe.
O, if, I say, you look upon this verse
When I perhaps compounded am with clay,
Do not so much as my poor name rehearse.
But let your love even with my life decay,
Lest the wise world should look into your moan
And mock you with me after I am gone.

O, lest the world should task you to recite
What merit lived in me, that you should love
After my death, dear love, forget me quite,
For you in me can nothing worthy prove;
Unless you would devise some virtuous lie,
To do more for me than mine own desert,
And hang more praise upon deceased I
Than niggard truth would willingly impart:
O, lest your true love may seem false in this,
That you for love speak well of me untrue,
My name be buried where my body is,
And live no more to shame nor me nor you.
For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
And so should you, to love things nothing worth.

That time of year thou mayst in me behold
When yellow leaves, or none, or few, do hang
Upon those boughs which shake against the cold,
Bare ruin'd choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.
In me thou seest the twilight of such day
As after sunset fadeth in the west,
Which by and by black night doth take away,
Death's second self, that seals up all in rest.
In me thou see'st the glowing of such fire
That on the ashes of his youth doth lie,
As the death-bed whereon it must expire
Consumed with that which it was nourish'd by.
This thou perceivest, which makes thy love more strong,
To love that well which thou must leave ere long.

But be contented: when that fell arrest
Without all bail shall carry me away,
My life hath in this line some interest,
Which for memorial still with thee shall stay.
When thou reviewest this, thou dost review
The very part was consecrate to thee:
The earth can have but earth, which is his due;
My spirit is thine, the better part of me:
So then thou hast but lost the dregs of life,
The prey of worms, my body being dead,
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
Too base of thee to be remembered.
The worth of that is that which it contains,
And that is this, and this with thee remains.

So are you to my thoughts as food to life,
Or as sweet-season'd showers are to the ground;
And for the peace of you I hold such strife
As 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found;
Now proud as an enjoyer and anon
Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure,
Now counting best to be with you alone,
Then better'd that the world may see my pleasure;
Sometime all full with feasting on your sight
And by and by clean starved for a look;
Possessing or pursuing no delight,
Save what is had or must from you be took.
Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
Or gluttoning on all, or all away.

Why is my verse so barren of new pride,
So far from variation or quick change?
Why with the time do I not glance aside
To new-found methods and to compounds strange?
Why write I still all one, ever the same,
And keep invention in a noted weed,
That every word doth almost tell my name,
Showing their birth and where they did proceed?
O, know, sweet love, I always write of you,
And you and love are still my argument;
So all my best is dressing old words new,
Spending again what is already spent:
For as the sun is daily new and old,
So is my love still telling what is told.

Thy glass will show thee how thy beauties wear,
Thy dial how thy precious minutes waste;
The vacant leaves thy mind's imprint will bear,
And of this book this learning mayst thou taste.
The wrinkles which thy glass will truly show
Of mouthed graves will give thee memory;
Thou by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know
Time's thievish progress to eternity.
Look, what thy memory can not contain
Commit to these waste blanks, and thou shalt find
Those children nursed, deliver'd from thy brain,
To take a new acquaintance of thy mind.
These offices, so oft as thou wilt look,
Shall profit thee and much enrich thy book.

So oft have I invoked thee for my Muse
And found such fair assistance in my verse
As every alien pen hath got my use
And under thee their poesy disperse.
Thine eyes that taught the dumb on high to sing
And heavy ignorance aloft to fly
Have added feathers to the learned's wing
And given grace a double majesty.
Yet be most proud of that which I compile,
Whose influence is thine and born of thee:
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be;
But thou art all my art and dost advance
As high as learning my rude ignorance.

Whilst I alone did call upon thy aid,
My verse alone had all thy gentle grace,
But now my gracious numbers are decay'd
And my sick Muse doth give another place.
I grant, sweet love, thy lovely argument
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen,
Yet what of thee thy poet doth invent
He robs thee of and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek; he can afford
No praise to thee but what in thee doth live.
Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
Since what he owes thee thou thyself dost pay.

O, how I faint when I of you do write,
Knowing a better spirit doth use your name,
And in the praise thereof spends all his might,
To make me tongue-tied, speaking of your fame!
But since your worth, wide as the ocean is,
The humble as the proudest sail doth bear,
My saucy bark inferior far to his
On your broad main doth wilfully appear.
Your shallowest help will hold me up afloat,
Whilst he upon your soundless deep doth ride;
Or being wreck'd, I am a worthless boat,
He of tall building and of goodly pride:
Then if he thrive and I be cast away,
The worst was this; my love was my decay.

Or I shall live your epitaph to make,
Or you survive when I in earth am rotten;
From hence your memory death cannot take,
Although in me each part will be forgotten.
Your name from hence immortal life shall have,
Though I, once gone, to all the world must die:
The earth can yield me but a common grave,
When you entombed in men's eyes shall lie.
Your monument shall be my gentle verse,
Which eyes not yet created shall o'er-read,
And tongues to be your being shall rehearse
When all the breathers of this world are dead;
You still shall live--such virtue hath my pen--
Where breath most breathes, even in the mouths of men.

I grant thou wert not married to my Muse
And therefore mayst without attaint o'erlook
The dedicated words which writers use
Of their fair subject, blessing every book
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days
And do so, love; yet when they have devised
What strained touches rhetoric can lend,
Thou truly fair wert truly sympathized
In true plain words by thy true-telling friend;
And their gross painting might be better used
Where cheeks need blood; in thee it is abused.

I never saw that you did painting need
And therefore to your fair no painting set;
I found, or thought I found, you did exceed
The barren tender of a poet's debt;
And therefore have I slept in your report,
That you yourself being extant well might show
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking of worth, what worth in you doth grow.
This silence for my sin you did impute,
Which shall be most my glory, being dumb;
For I impair not beauty being mute,
When others would give life and bring a tomb.
There lives more life in one of your fair eyes
Than both your poets can in praise devise.

Who is it that says most? which can say more
Than this rich praise, that you alone are you?
In whose confine immured is the store
Which should example where your equal grew.
Lean penury within that pen doth dwell
That to his subject lends not some small glory;
But he that writes of you, if he can tell
That you are you, so dignifies his story,
Let him but copy what in you is writ,
Not making worse what nature made so clear,
And such a counterpart shall fame his wit,
Making his style admired every where.
You to your beauteous blessings add a curse,
Being fond on praise, which makes your praises worse.

My tongue-tied Muse in manners holds her still,
While comments of your praise, richly compiled,
Reserve their character with golden quill
And precious phrase by all the Muses filed.
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unletter'd clerk still cry 'Amen'
To every hymn that able spirit affords
In polish'd form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say 'Tis so, 'tis true,'
And to the most of praise add something more;
But that is in my thought, whose love to you,
Though words come hindmost, holds his rank before.
Then others for the breath of words respect,
Me for my dumb thoughts, speaking in effect.

Was it the proud full sail of his great verse,
Bound for the prize of all too precious you,
That did my ripe thoughts in my brain inhearse,
Making their tomb the womb wherein they grew?
Was it his spirit, by spirits taught to write
Above a mortal pitch, that struck me dead?
No, neither he, nor his compeers by night
Giving him aid, my verse astonished.
He, nor that affable familiar ghost
Which nightly gulls him with intelligence
As victors of my silence cannot boast;
I was not sick of any fear from thence:
But when your countenance fill'd up his line,
Then lack'd I matter; that enfeebled mine.

Farewell! thou art too dear for my possessing,
And like enough thou know'st thy estimate:
The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing;
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting?
And for that riches where is my deserving?
The cause of this fair gift in me is wanting,
And so my patent back again is swerving.
Thyself thou gavest, thy own worth then not knowing,
Or me, to whom thou gavest it, else mistaking;
So thy great gift, upon misprision growing,
Comes home again, on better judgment making.
Thus have I had thee, as a dream doth flatter,
In sleep a king, but waking no such matter.

When thou shalt be disposed to set me light,
And place my merit in the eye of scorn,
Upon thy side against myself I'll fight,
And prove thee virtuous, though thou art forsworn.
With mine own weakness being best acquainted,
Upon thy part I can set down a story
Of faults conceal'd, wherein I am attainted,
That thou in losing me shalt win much glory:
And I by this will be a gainer too;
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
That for thy right myself will bear all wrong.

Say that thou didst forsake me for some fault,
And I will comment upon that offence;
Speak of my lameness, and I straight will halt,
Against thy reasons making no defence.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace: knowing thy will,
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
For thee against myself I'll vow debate,
For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.

Then hate me when thou wilt; if ever, now;
Now, while the world is bent my deeds to cross,
Join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,
And do not drop in for an after-loss:
Ah, do not, when my heart hath 'scoped this sorrow,
Come in the rearward of a conquer'd woe;
Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,
When other petty griefs have done their spite
But in the onset come; so shall I taste
At first the very worst of fortune's might,
And other strains of woe, which now seem woe,
Compared with loss of thee will not seem so.

Some glory in their birth, some in their skill,
Some in their wealth, some in their bodies' force,
Some in their garments, though new-fangled ill,
Some in their hawks and hounds, some in their horse;
And every humour hath his adjunct pleasure,
Wherein it finds a joy above the rest:
But these particulars are not my measure;
All these I better in one general best.
Thy love is better than high birth to me,
Richer than wealth, prouder than garments' cost,
Of more delight than hawks or horses be;
And having thee, of all men's pride I boast:
Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take
All this away and me most wretched make.

But do thy worst to steal thyself away,
For term of life thou art assured mine,
And life no longer than thy love will stay,
For it depends upon that love of thine.
Then need I not to fear the worst of wrongs,
When in the least of them my life hath end.
I see a better state to me belongs
Than that which on thy humour doth depend;
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
Since that my life on thy revolt doth lie.
O, what a happy title do I find,
Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
Thou mayst be false, and yet I know it not.

So shall I live, supposing thou art true,
Like a deceived husband; so love's face
May still seem love to me, though alter'd new;
Thy looks with me, thy heart in other place:
For there can live no hatred in thine eye,
Therefore in that I cannot know thy change.
In many's looks the false heart's history
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange,
But heaven in thy creation did decree
That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell;
Whate'er thy thoughts or thy heart's workings be,
Thy looks should nothing thence but sweetness tell.
How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
if thy sweet virtue answer not thy show!

They that have power to hurt and will do none,
That do not do the thing they most do show,
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow,
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces
And husband nature's riches from expense;
They are the lords and owners of their faces,
Others but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,
Though to itself it only live and die,
But if that flower with base infection meet,
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.

How sweet and lovely dost thou make the shame
Which, like a canker in the fragrant rose,
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name!
O, in what sweets dost thou thy sins enclose!
That tongue that tells the story of thy days,
Making lascivious comments on thy sport,
Cannot dispraise but in a kind of praise;
Naming thy name blesses an ill report.
O, what a mansion have those vices got
Which for their habitation chose out thee,
Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,
And all things turn to fair that eyes can see!
Take heed, dear heart, of this large privilege;
The hardest knife ill-used doth lose his edge.

Some say thy fault is youth, some wantonness;
Some say thy grace is youth and gentle sport;
Both grace and faults are loved of more and less;
Thou makest faults graces that to thee resort.
As on the finger of a throned queen
The basest jewel will be well esteem'd,
So are those errors that in thee are seen
To truths translated and for true things deem'd.
How many lambs might the stem wolf betray,
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away,
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
But do not so; I love thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.

How like a winter hath my absence been
From thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!
What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen!
What old December's bareness every where!
And yet this time removed was summer's time,
The teeming autumn, big with rich increase,
Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,
Like widow'd wombs after their lords' decease:
Yet this abundant issue seem'd to me
But hope of orphans and unfather'd fruit;
For summer and his pleasures wait on thee,
And, thou away, the very birds are mute;
Or, if they sing, 'tis with so dull a cheer
That leaves look pale, dreading the winter's near.

From you have I been absent in the spring,
When proud-pied April dress'd in all his trim
Hath put a spirit of youth in every thing,
That heavy Saturn laugh'd and leap'd with him.
Yet nor the lays of birds nor the sweet smell
Of different flowers in odour and in hue
Could make me any summer's story tell,
Or from their proud lap pluck them where they grew;
Nor did I wonder at the lily's white,
Nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose;
They were but sweet, but figures of delight,
Drawn after you, you pattern of all those.
Yet seem'd it winter still, and, you away,
As with your shadow I with these did play:

The forward violet thus did I chide:
Sweet thief, whence didst thou steal thy sweet that smells,
If not from my love's breath? The purple pride
Which on thy soft cheek for complexion dwells
In my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
The lily I condemned for thy hand,
And buds of marjoram had stol'n thy hair:
The roses fearfully on thorns did stand,
One blushing shame, another white despair;
A third, nor red nor white, had stol'n of both
And to his robbery had annex'd thy breath;
But, for his theft, in pride of all his growth
A vengeful canker eat him up to death.
More flowers I noted, yet I none could see
But sweet or colour it had stol'n from thee.

Where art thou, Muse, that thou forget'st so long
To speak of that which gives thee all thy might?
Spend'st thou thy fury on some worthless song,
Darkening thy power to lend base subjects light?
Return, forgetful Muse, and straight redeem
In gentle numbers time so idly spent;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy pen both skill and argument.
Rise, resty Muse, my love's sweet face survey,
If Time have any wrinkle graven there;
If any, be a satire to decay,
And make Time's spoils despised every where.
Give my love fame faster than Time wastes life;
So thou prevent'st his scythe and crooked knife.

O truant Muse, what shall be thy amends
For thy neglect of truth in beauty dyed?
Both truth and beauty on my love depends;
So dost thou too, and therein dignified.
Make answer, Muse: wilt thou not haply say
'Truth needs no colour, with his colour fix'd;
Beauty no pencil, beauty's truth to lay;
But best is best, if never intermix'd?'
Because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb?
Excuse not silence so; for't lies in thee
To make him much outlive a gilded tomb,
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
Then do thy office, Muse; I teach thee how
To make him seem long hence as he shows now.

My love is strengthen'd, though more weak in seeming;
I love not less, though less the show appear:
That love is merchandized whose rich esteeming
The owner's tongue doth publish every where.
Our love was new and then but in the spring
When I was wont to greet it with my lays,
As Philomel in summer's front doth sing
And stops her pipe in growth of riper days:
Not that the summer is less pleasant now
Than when her mournful hymns did hush the night,
But that wild music burthens every bough
And sweets grown common lose their dear delight.
Therefore like her I sometime hold my tongue,
Because I would not dull you with my song.

Alack, what poverty my Muse brings forth,
That having such a scope to show her pride,
The argument all bare is of more worth
Than when it hath my added praise beside!
O, blame me not, if I no more can write!
Look in your glass, and there appears a face
That over-goes my blunt invention quite,
Dulling my lines and doing me disgrace.
Were it not sinful then, striving to mend,
To mar the subject that before was well?
For to no other pass my verses tend
Than of your graces and your gifts to tell;
And more, much more, than in my verse can sit
Your own glass shows you when you look in it.

To me, fair friend, you never can be old,
For as you were when first your eye I eyed,
Such seems your beauty still. Three winters cold
Have from the forests shook three summers' pride,
Three beauteous springs to yellow autumn turn'd
In process of the seasons have I seen,
Three April perfumes in three hot Junes burn'd,
Since first I saw you fresh, which yet are green.
Ah! yet doth beauty, like a dial-hand,
Steal from his figure and no pace perceived;
So your sweet hue, which methinks still doth stand,
Hath motion and mine eye may be deceived:
For fear of which, hear this, thou age unbred;
Ere you were born was beauty's summer dead.

Let not my love be call'd idolatry,
Nor my beloved as an idol show,
Since all alike my songs and praises be
To one, of one, still such, and ever so.
Kind is my love to-day, to-morrow kind,
Still constant in a wondrous excellence;
Therefore my verse to constancy confined,
One thing expressing, leaves out difference.
'Fair, kind and true' is all my argument,
'Fair, kind, and true' varying to other words;
And in this change is my invention spent,
Three themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.
'Fair, kind, and true,' have often lived alone,
Which three till now never kept seat in one.

When in the chronicle of wasted time
I see descriptions of the fairest wights,
And beauty making beautiful old rhyme
In praise of ladies dead and lovely knights,
Then, in the blazon of sweet beauty's best,
Of hand, of foot, of lip, of eye, of brow,
I see their antique pen would have express'd
Even such a beauty as you master now.
So all their praises are but prophecies
Of this our time, all you prefiguring;
And, for they look'd but with divining eyes,
They had not skill enough your worth to sing:
For we, which now behold these present days,
Had eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to praise.

Not mine own fears, nor the prophetic soul
Of the wide world dreaming on things to come,
Can yet the lease of my true love control,
Supposed as forfeit to a confined doom.
The mortal moon hath her eclipse endured
And the sad augurs mock their own presage;
Incertainties now crown themselves assured
And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
Now with the drops of this most balmy time
My love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes,
Since, spite of him, I'll live in this poor rhyme,
While he insults o'er dull and speechless tribes:
And thou in this shalt find thy monument,
When tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent.

What's in the brain that ink may character
Which hath not figured to thee my true spirit?
What's new to speak, what new to register,
That may express my love or thy dear merit?
Nothing, sweet boy; but yet, like prayers divine,
I must, each day say o'er the very same,
Counting no old thing old, thou mine, I thine,
Even as when first I hallow'd thy fair name.
So that eternal love in love's fresh case
Weighs not the dust and injury of age,
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
Finding the first conceit of love there bred
Where time and outward form would show it dead.

O, never say that I was false of heart,
Though absence seem'd my flame to qualify.
As easy might I from myself depart
As from my soul, which in thy breast doth lie:
That is my home of love: if I have ranged,
Like him that travels I return again,
Just to the time, not with the time exchanged,
So that myself bring water for my stain.
Never believe, though in my nature reign'd
All frailties that besiege all kinds of blood,
That it could so preposterously be stain'd,
To leave for nothing all thy sum of good;
For nothing this wide universe I call,
Save thou, my rose; in it thou art my all.

Alas, 'tis true I have gone here and there
And made myself a motley to the view,
Gored mine own thoughts, sold cheap what is most dear,
Made old offences of affections new;
Most true it is that I have look'd on truth
Askance and strangely: but, by all above,
These blenches gave my heart another youth,
And worse essays proved thee my best of love.
Now all is done, have what shall have no end:
Mine appetite I never more will grind
On newer proof, to try an older friend,
A god in love, to whom I am confined.
Then give me welcome, next my heaven the best,
Even to thy pure and most most loving breast.

O, for my sake do you with Fortune chide,
The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,
That did not better for my life provide
Than public means which public manners breeds.
Thence comes it that my name receives a brand,
And almost thence my nature is subdued
To what it works in, like the dyer's hand:
Pity me then and wish I were renew'd;
Whilst, like a willing patient, I will drink
Potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infection
No bitterness that I will bitter think,
Nor double penance, to correct correction.
Pity me then, dear friend, and I assure ye
Even that your pity is enough to cure me.

Your love and pity doth the impression fill
Which vulgar scandal stamp'd upon my brow;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So you o'er-green my bad, my good allow?
You are my all the world, and I must strive
To know my shames and praises from your tongue:
None else to me, nor I to none alive,
That my steel'd sense or changes right or wrong.
In so profound abysm I throw all care
Of others' voices, that my adder's sense
To critic and to flatterer stopped are.
Mark how with my neglect I do dispense:
You are so strongly in my purpose bred
That all the world besides methinks are dead.

Since I left you, mine eye is in my mind;
And that which governs me to go about
Doth part his function and is partly blind,
Seems seeing, but effectually is out;
For it no form delivers to the heart
Of bird of flower, or shape, which it doth latch:
Of his quick objects hath the mind no part,
Nor his own vision holds what it doth catch:
For if it see the rudest or gentlest sight,
The most sweet favour or deformed'st creature,
The mountain or the sea, the day or night,
The crow or dove, it shapes them to your feature:
Incapable of more, replete with you,
My most true mind thus makes mine eye untrue.

Or whether doth my mind, being crown'd with you,
Drink up the monarch's plague, this flattery?
Or whether shall I say, mine eye saith true,
And that your love taught it this alchemy,
To make of monsters and things indigest
Such cherubins as your sweet self resemble,
Creating every bad a perfect best,
As fast as objects to his beams assemble?
O,'tis the first; 'tis flattery in my seeing,
And my great mind most kingly drinks it up:
Mine eye well knows what with his gust is 'greeing,
And to his palate doth prepare the cup:
If it be poison'd, 'tis the lesser sin
That mine eye loves it and doth first begin.

Those lines that I before have writ do lie,
Even those that said I could not love you dearer:
Yet then my judgment knew no reason why
My most full flame should afterwards burn clearer.
But reckoning time, whose million'd accidents
Creep in 'twixt vows and change decrees of kings,
Tan sacred beauty, blunt the sharp'st intents,
Divert strong minds to the course of altering things;
Alas, why, fearing of time's tyranny,
Might I not then say 'Now I love you best,'
When I was certain o'er incertainty,
Crowning the present, doubting of the rest?
Love is a babe; then might I not say so,
To give full growth to that which still doth grow?

Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments. Love is not love
Which alters when it alteration finds,
Or bends with the remover to remove:
O no! it is an ever-fixed mark
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wandering bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come:
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
If this be error and upon me proved,
I never writ, nor no man ever loved.

Accuse me thus: that I have scanted all
Wherein I should your great deserts repay,
Forgot upon your dearest love to call,
Whereto all bonds do tie me day by day;
That I have frequent been with unknown minds
And given to time your own dear-purchased right
That I have hoisted sail to all the winds
Which should transport me farthest from your sight.
Book both my wilfulness and errors down
And on just proof surmise accumulate;
Bring me within the level of your frown,
But shoot not at me in your waken'd hate;
Since my appeal says I did strive to prove
The constancy and virtue of your love.

Like as, to make our appetites more keen,
With eager compounds we our palate urge,
As, to prevent our maladies unseen,
We sicken to shun sickness when we purge,
Even so, being tuff of your ne'er-cloying sweetness,
To bitter sauces did I frame my feeding
And, sick of welfare, found a kind of meetness
To be diseased ere that there was true needing.
Thus policy in love, to anticipate
The ills that were not, grew to faults assured
And brought to medicine a healthful state
Which, rank of goodness, would by ill be cured:
But thence I learn, and find the lesson true,
Drugs poison him that so fell sick of you.

What potions have I drunk of Siren tears,
Distill'd from limbecks foul as hell within,
Applying fears to hopes and hopes to fears,
Still losing when I saw myself to win!
What wretched errors hath my heart committed,
Whilst it hath thought itself so blessed never!
How have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted
In the distraction of this madding fever!
O benefit of ill! now I find true
That better is by evil still made better;
And ruin'd love, when it is built anew,
Grows fairer than at first, more strong, far greater.
So I return rebuked to my content
And gain by ill thrice more than I have spent.

That you were once unkind befriends me now,
And for that sorrow which I then did feel
Needs must I under my transgression bow,
Unless my nerves were brass or hammer'd steel.
For if you were by my unkindness shaken
As I by yours, you've pass'd a hell of time,
And I, a tyrant, have no leisure taken
To weigh how once I suffered in your crime.
O, that our night of woe might have remember'd
My deepest sense, how hard true sorrow hits,
And soon to you, as you to me, then tender'd
The humble slave which wounded bosoms fits!
But that your trespass now becomes a fee;
Mine ransoms yours, and yours must ransom me.

'Tis better to be vile than vile esteem'd,
When not to be receives reproach of being,
And the just pleasure lost which is so deem'd
Not by our feeling but by others' seeing:
For why should others false adulterate eyes
Give salutation to my sportive blood?
Or on my frailties why are frailer spies,
Which in their wills count bad what I think good?
No, I am that I am, and they that level
At my abuses reckon up their own:
I may be straight, though they themselves be bevel;
By their rank thoughts my deeds must not be shown;
Unless this general evil they maintain,
All men are bad, and in their badness reign.

Thy gift, thy tables, are within my brain
Full character'd with lasting memory,
Which shall above that idle rank remain
Beyond all date, even to eternity;
Or at the least, so long as brain and heart
Have faculty by nature to subsist;
Till each to razed oblivion yield his part
Of thee, thy record never can be miss'd.
That poor retention could not so much hold,
Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score;
Therefore to give them from me was I bold,
To trust those tables that receive thee more:
To keep an adjunct to remember thee
Were to import forgetfulness in me.

No, Time, thou shalt not boast that I do change:
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
To me are nothing novel, nothing strange;
They are but dressings of a former sight.
Our dates are brief, and therefore we admire
What thou dost foist upon us that is old,
And rather make them born to our desire
Than think that we before have heard them told.
Thy registers and thee I both defy,
Not wondering at the present nor the past,
For thy records and what we see doth lie,
Made more or less by thy continual haste.
This I do vow and this shall ever be;
I will be true, despite thy scythe and thee.

If my dear love were but the child of state,
It might for Fortune's bastard be unfather'd'
As subject to Time's love or to Time's hate,
Weeds among weeds, or flowers with flowers gather'd.
No, it was builded far from accident;
It suffers not in smiling pomp, nor falls
Under the blow of thralled discontent,
Whereto the inviting time our fashion calls:
It fears not policy, that heretic,
Which works on leases of short-number'd hours,
But all alone stands hugely politic,
That it nor grows with heat nor drowns with showers.
To this I witness call the fools of time,
Which die for goodness, who have lived for crime.

Were 't aught to me I bore the canopy,
With my extern the outward honouring,
Or laid great bases for eternity,
Which prove more short than waste or ruining?
Have I not seen dwellers on form and favour
Lose all, and more, by paying too much rent,
For compound sweet forgoing simple savour,
Pitiful thrivers, in their gazing spent?
No, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And take thou my oblation, poor but free,
Which is not mix'd with seconds, knows no art,
But mutual render, only me for thee.
Hence, thou suborn'd informer! a true soul
When most impeach'd stands least in thy control.

O thou, my lovely boy, who in thy power
Dost hold Time's fickle glass, his sickle, hour;
Who hast by waning grown, and therein show'st
Thy lovers withering as thy sweet self grow'st;
If Nature, sovereign mistress over wrack,
As thou goest onwards, still will pluck thee back,
She keeps thee to this purpose, that her skill
May time disgrace and wretched minutes kill.
Yet fear her, O thou minion of her pleasure!
She may detain, but not still keep, her treasure:
Her audit, though delay'd, answer'd must be,
And her quietus is to render thee.

In the old age black was not counted fair,
Or if it were, it bore not beauty's name;
But now is black beauty's successive heir,
And beauty slander'd with a bastard shame:
For since each hand hath put on nature's power,
Fairing the foul with art's false borrow'd face,
Sweet beauty hath no name, no holy bower,
But is profaned, if not lives in disgrace.
Therefore my mistress' brows are raven black,
Her eyes so suited, and they mourners seem
At such who, not born fair, no beauty lack,
Slandering creation with a false esteem:
Yet so they mourn, becoming of their woe,
That every tongue says beauty should look so.

How oft, when thou, my music, music play'st,
Upon that blessed wood whose motion sounds
With thy sweet fingers, when thou gently sway'st
The wiry concord that mine ear confounds,
Do I envy those jacks that nimble leap
To kiss the tender inward of thy hand,
Whilst my poor lips, which should that harvest reap,
At the wood's boldness by thee blushing stand!
To be so tickled, they would change their state
And situation with those dancing chips,
O'er whom thy fingers walk with gentle gait,
Making dead wood more blest than living lips.
Since saucy jacks so happy are in this,
Give them thy fingers, me thy lips to kiss.

The expense of spirit in a waste of shame
Is lust in action; and till action, lust
Is perjured, murderous, bloody, full of blame,
Savage, extreme, rude, cruel, not to trust,
Enjoy'd no sooner but despised straight,
Past reason hunted, and no sooner had
Past reason hated, as a swallow'd bait
On purpose laid to make the taker mad;
Mad in pursuit and in possession so;
Had, having, and in quest to have, extreme;
A bliss in proof, and proved, a very woe;
Before, a joy proposed; behind, a dream.
All this the world well knows; yet none knows well
To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell.

My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun;
Coral is far more red than her lips' red;
If snow be white, why then her breasts are dun;
If hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head.
I have seen roses damask'd, red and white,
But no such roses see I in her cheeks;
And in some perfumes is there more delight
Than in the breath that from my mistress reeks.
I love to hear her speak, yet well I know
That music hath a far more pleasing sound;
I grant I never saw a goddess go;
My mistress, when she walks, treads on the ground:
And yet, by heaven, I think my love as rare
As any she belied with false compare.

Thou art as tyrannous, so as thou art,
As those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
Yet, in good faith, some say that thee behold
Thy face hath not the power to make love groan:
To say they err I dare not be so bold,
Although I swear it to myself alone.
And, to be sure that is not false I swear,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck, do witness bear
Thy black is fairest in my judgment's place.
In nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,
And thence this slander, as I think, proceeds.

Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torments me with disdain,
Have put on black and loving mourners be,
Looking with pretty ruth upon my pain.
And truly not the morning sun of heaven
Better becomes the grey cheeks of the east,
Nor that full star that ushers in the even
Doth half that glory to the sober west,
As those two mourning eyes become thy face:
O, let it then as well beseem thy heart
To mourn for me, since mourning doth thee grace,
And suit thy pity like in every part.
Then will I swear beauty herself is black
And all they foul that thy complexion lack.

Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me!
Is't not enough to torture me alone,
But slave to slavery my sweet'st friend must be?
Me from myself thy cruel eye hath taken,
And my next self thou harder hast engross'd:
Of him, myself, and thee, I am forsaken;
A torment thrice threefold thus to be cross'd.
Prison my heart in thy steel bosom's ward,
But then my friend's heart let my poor heart bail;
Whoe'er keeps me, let my heart be his guard;
Thou canst not then use rigor in my gaol:
And yet thou wilt; for I, being pent in thee,
Perforce am thine, and all that is in me.

So, now I have confess'd that he is thine,
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Thou wilt restore, to be my comfort still:
But thou wilt not, nor he will not be free,
For thou art covetous and he is kind;
He learn'd but surety-like to write for me
Under that bond that him as fast doth bind.
The statute of thy beauty thou wilt take,
Thou usurer, that put'st forth all to use,
And sue a friend came debtor for my sake;
So him I lose through my unkind abuse.
Him have I lost; thou hast both him and me:
He pays the whole, and yet am I not free.

Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy 'Will,'
And 'Will' to boot, and 'Will' in overplus;
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To thy sweet will making addition thus.
Wilt thou, whose will is large and spacious,
Not once vouchsafe to hide my will in thine?
Shall will in others seem right gracious,
And in my will no fair acceptance shine?
The sea all water, yet receives rain still
And in abundance addeth to his store;
So thou, being rich in 'Will,' add to thy 'Will'
One will of mine, to make thy large 'Will' more.
Let no unkind, no fair beseechers kill;
Think all but one, and me in that one 'Will.'

If thy soul cheque thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy 'Will,'
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there;
Thus far for love my love-suit, sweet, fulfil.
'Will' will fulfil the treasure of thy love,
Ay, fill it full with wills, and my will one.
In things of great receipt with ease we prove
Among a number one is reckon'd none:
Then in the number let me pass untold,
Though in thy stores' account I one must be;
For nothing hold me, so it please thee hold
That nothing me, a something sweet to thee:
Make but my name thy love, and love that still,
And then thou lovest me, for my name is 'Will.'

Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes,
That they behold, and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Yet what the best is take the worst to be.
If eyes corrupt by over-partial looks
Be anchor'd in the bay where all men ride,
Why of eyes' falsehood hast thou forged hooks,
Whereto the judgment of my heart is tied?
Why should my heart think that a several plot
Which my heart knows the wide world's common place?
Or mine eyes seeing this, say this is not,
To put fair truth upon so foul a face?
In things right true my heart and eyes have erred,
And to this false plague are they now transferr'd.

When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her, though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutor'd youth,
Unlearned in the world's false subtleties.
Thus vainly thinking that she thinks me young,
Although she knows my days are past the best,
Simply I credit her false speaking tongue:
On both sides thus is simple truth suppress'd.
But wherefore says she not she is unjust?
And wherefore say not I that I am old?
O, love's best habit is in seeming trust,
And age in love loves not to have years told:
Therefore I lie with her and she with me,
And in our faults by lies we flatter'd be.

O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Use power with power and slay me not by art.
Tell me thou lovest elsewhere, but in my sight,
Dear heart, forbear to glance thine eye aside:
What need'st thou wound with cunning when thy might
Is more than my o'er-press'd defense can bide?
Let me excuse thee: ah! my love well knows
Her pretty looks have been mine enemies,
And therefore from my face she turns my foes,
That they elsewhere might dart their injuries:
Yet do not so; but since I am near slain,
Kill me outright with looks and rid my pain.

Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain;
Lest sorrow lend me words and words express
The manner of my pity-wanting pain.
If I might teach thee wit, better it were,
Though not to love, yet, love, to tell me so;
As testy sick men, when their deaths be near,
No news but health from their physicians know;
For if I should despair, I should grow mad,
And in my madness might speak ill of thee:
Now this ill-wresting world is grown so bad,
Mad slanderers by mad ears believed be,
That I may not be so, nor thou belied,
Bear thine eyes straight, though thy proud heart go wide.

In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Who in despite of view is pleased to dote;
Nor are mine ears with thy tongue's tune delighted,
Nor tender feeling, to base touches prone,
Nor taste, nor smell, desire to be invited
To any sensual feast with thee alone:
But my five wits nor my five senses can
Dissuade one foolish heart from serving thee,
Who leaves unsway'd the likeness of a man,
Thy proud hearts slave and vassal wretch to be:
Only my plague thus far I count my gain,
That she that makes me sin awards me pain.

Love is my sin and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving:
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thou shalt find it merits not reproving;
Or, if it do, not from those lips of thine,
That have profaned their scarlet ornaments
And seal'd false bonds of love as oft as mine,
Robb'd others' beds' revenues of their rents.
Be it lawful I love thee, as thou lovest those
Whom thine eyes woo as mine importune thee:
Root pity in thy heart, that when it grows
Thy pity may deserve to pitied be.
If thou dost seek to have what thou dost hide,
By self-example mayst thou be denied!

Lo! as a careful housewife runs to catch
One of her feather'd creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe and makes an swift dispatch
In pursuit of the thing she would have stay,
Whilst her neglected child holds her in chase,
Cries to catch her whose busy care is bent
To follow that which flies before her face,
Not prizing her poor infant's discontent;
So runn'st thou after that which flies from thee,
Whilst I thy babe chase thee afar behind;
But if thou catch thy hope, turn back to me,
And play the mother's part, kiss me, be kind:
So will I pray that thou mayst have thy 'Will,'
If thou turn back, and my loud crying still.

Two loves I have of comfort and despair,
Which like two spirits do suggest me still:
The better angel is a man right fair,
The worser spirit a woman colour'd ill.
To win me soon to hell, my female evil
Tempteth my better angel from my side,
And would corrupt my saint to be a devil,
Wooing his purity with her foul pride.
And whether that my angel be turn'd fiend
Suspect I may, but not directly tell;
But being both from me, both to each friend,
I guess one angel in another's hell:
Yet this shall I ne'er know, but live in doubt,
Till my bad angel fire my good one out.

Those lips that Love's own hand did make
Breathed forth the sound that said 'I hate'
To me that languish'd for her sake;
But when she saw my woeful state,
Straight in her heart did mercy come,
Chiding that tongue that ever sweet
Was used in giving gentle doom,
And taught it thus anew to greet:
'I hate' she alter'd with an end,
That follow'd it as gentle day
Doth follow night, who like a fiend
From heaven to hell is flown away;
'I hate' from hate away she threw,
And saved my life, saying 'not you.'

Poor soul, the centre of my sinful earth,
[ ] these rebel powers that thee array;
Why dost thou pine within and suffer dearth,
Painting thy outward walls so costly gay?
Why so large cost, having so short a lease,
Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend?
Shall worms, inheritors of this excess,
Eat up thy charge? is this thy body's end?
Then soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss,
And let that pine to aggravate thy store;
Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross;
Within be fed, without be rich no more:
So shalt thou feed on Death, that feeds on men,
And Death once dead, there's no more dying then.

My love is as a fever, longing still
For that which longer nurseth the disease,
Feeding on that which doth preserve the ill,
The uncertain sickly appetite to please.
My reason, the physician to my love,
Angry that his prescriptions are not kept,
Hath left me, and I desperate now approve
Desire is death, which physic did except.
Past cure I am, now reason is past care,
And frantic-mad with evermore unrest;
My thoughts and my discourse as madmen's are,
At random from the truth vainly express'd;
For I have sworn thee fair and thought thee bright,
Who art as black as hell, as dark as night.

O me, what eyes hath Love put in my head,
Which have no correspondence with true sight!
Or, if they have, where is my judgment fled,
That censures falsely what they see aright?
If that be fair whereon my false eyes dote,
What means the world to say it is not so?
If it be not, then love doth well denote
Love's eye is not so true as all men's 'No.'
How can it? O, how can Love's eye be true,
That is so vex'd with watching and with tears?
No marvel then, though I mistake my view;
The sun itself sees not till heaven clears.
O cunning Love! with tears thou keep'st me blind,
Lest eyes well-seeing thy foul faults should find.

Canst thou, O cruel! say I love thee not,
When I against myself with thee partake?
Do I not think on thee, when I forgot
Am of myself, all tyrant, for thy sake?
Who hateth thee that I do call my friend?
On whom frown'st thou that I do fawn upon?
Nay, if thou lour'st on me, do I not spend
Revenge upon myself with present moan?
What merit do I in myself respect,
That is so proud thy service to despise,
When all my best doth worship thy defect,
Commanded by the motion of thine eyes?
But, love, hate on, for now I know thy mind;
Those that can see thou lovest, and I am blind.

O, from what power hast thou this powerful might
With insufficiency my heart to sway?
To make me give the lie to my true sight,
And swear that brightness doth not grace the day?
Whence hast thou this becoming of things ill,
That in the very refuse of thy deeds
There is such strength and warrantize of skill
That, in my mind, thy worst all best exceeds?
Who taught thee how to make me love thee more
The more I hear and see just cause of hate?
O, though I love what others do abhor,
With others thou shouldst not abhor my state:
If thy unworthiness raised love in me,
More worthy I to be beloved of thee.

Love is too young to know what conscience is;
Yet who knows not conscience is born of love?
Then, gentle cheater, urge not my amiss,
Lest guilty of my faults thy sweet self prove:
For, thou betraying me, I do betray
My nobler part to my gross body's treason;
My soul doth tell my body that he may
Triumph in love; flesh stays no father reason;
But, rising at thy name, doth point out thee
As his triumphant prize. Proud of this pride,
He is contented thy poor drudge to be,
To stand in thy affairs, fall by thy side.
No want of conscience hold it that I call
Her 'love' for whose dear love I rise and fall.

In loving thee thou know'st I am forsworn,
But thou art twice forsworn, to me love swearing,
In act thy bed-vow broke and new faith torn,
In vowing new hate after new love bearing.
But why of two oaths' breach do I accuse thee,
When I break twenty? I am perjured most;
For all my vows are oaths but to misuse thee
And all my honest faith in thee is lost,
For I have sworn deep oaths of thy deep kindness,
Oaths of thy love, thy truth, thy constancy,
And, to enlighten thee, gave eyes to blindness,
Or made them swear against the thing they see;
For I have sworn thee fair; more perjured I,
To swear against the truth so foul a lie!

Cupid laid by his brand, and fell asleep:
A maid of Dian's this advantage found,
And his love-kindling fire did quickly steep
In a cold valley-fountain of that ground;
Which borrow'd from this holy fire of Love
A dateless lively heat, still to endure,
And grew a seething bath, which yet men prove
Against strange maladies a sovereign cure.
But at my mistress' eye Love's brand new-fired,
The boy for trial needs would touch my breast;
I, sick withal, the help of bath desired,
And thither hied, a sad distemper'd guest,
But found no cure: the bath for my help lies
Where Cupid got new fire--my mistress' eyes.

The little Love-god lying once asleep
Laid by his side his heart-inflaming brand,
Whilst many nymphs that vow'd chaste life to keep
Came tripping by; but in her maiden hand
The fairest votary took up that fire
Which many legions of true hearts had warm'd;
And so the general of hot desire
Was sleeping by a virgin hand disarm'd.
This brand she quenched in a cool well by,
Which from Love's fire took heat perpetual,
Growing a bath and healthful remedy
For men diseased; but I, my mistress' thrall,
Came there for cure, and this by that I prove,
Love's fire heats water, water cools not love.
Though not the gaudy Tulip's drap'ry fine
Yet thou fair plant canst Tyre's rich purple boast
The beauty of the amethyst is thine
Thy neat and simple garb delights me most
Unseen and shadowy forms of tiny size
Delicious dew-drops from thy surface sip
Feast on thy charms their microscopic eyes
And breathe thy sweets as o'er thy leaves they trip.
Emblem of innocence and modest worth
Who lov'st the eye of rude remark to shun
Whose lovely lowly form still tends to earth.
Unlike the flower which courts the mid-day sun
Thou seem'st sweet flow'ret of his beam afraid

Thus merit ever loves and seeks the shade. To the Genius of Poetry
Genius of tuneful verse! inspired by whom
Divine Maeonides in numbers first
Dawn'd on a world o'ercast with mental gloom
And strains sublime to barb'rous Greece rehearsed
Spirit of song! from whose Castilian fount
The Mantuan poet sweet instruction drew
With piercing ken to whose Aonian mount
Once Albion's bards on eagle pinions flew
Though far aloof thy vot'ry stretch his wing
That o'er no classic land presumes to soar
Him hast thou taught in plaintive strains to sing
To feel thy solace and thy power adore
And spite of envy's futile venom thou

Hast placed a leaf of laurel on his brow.
Ere Greece soared showering sovranties of light
Ere Rome shook earth with her tremendous tread
Ere yon blue-feasting sun-god burst blood-red
Beneath thee slept thy prodigy O Night!
Aeons have ta'en like dreams their strange slow flight
And vastest tiniest creatures paved her bed
E'en cities sapped by the usurping spread
Of her imperious waves have sunk from sight
Since she first chanted her colossal psalms
That swell and sink beneath the listening stars
Oft as with myriad drums beating to arms
She thunders out the grandeur of her wars
Then shifts through moaning moods her wizard charms
Of slow flutes and caressing gay guitars. 

With eastern banners flaunting in the breeze
Royal processions sounding fife and gong
And showering jewels on the jostling throng
March to the tramp of Marlowe's harmonies.
He drained life's brimming goblet to the lees
He recked not that a peer superb and strong
Would tune great notes to his impassioned song
And top his cannonading lines with ease.
To the wild clash of cymbals we behold
The tragic ending of his youthful life
The revelry of kisses bought with gold
The jest and jealous rival and the strife
A harlot weeping o'er a corpse scarce cold
A scullion fleeing with a bloody knife.

Thou sleep'st in marble now O West! still first
Upon the roll of fame thy name appears
Thy name decreed to reach the latest years
Despite the taint of envious breath accurst.
And Copley too thy spirit proud hast burst!--
But turn we to the living: bright compeers.
Our Stuart Allston! ripe of age time sears
Not that this burns with an immortal thirst.
Who next shall follow in the march of time?
See Trumbull anxious for a deathless name!
See Vanderlyn see ardent Sully climb!
And Leslie Newton tread the paths of fame!
Urge then the generous race ye chosen few
And let Apelles Raphael live in you.

Ye daffodilian days whose fallen towers
Shielded our paradisal prime from ill
Fair Past fair motherhood! let come what will
We being yours defy the anarch powers.
For us the happy tidings fell in showers
Enjewelling the wind from every hill
We drained the sun against the winter's chill
Our ways were barricadoed in with flowers:
And if from skyey minsters now unhoused
Earth's massy workings at the forge we hear
The black roll of the congregated sea
And war's live hoof: O yet last year last year
We were the lark-lulled shepherdlings that drowsed
Grave-deep at noon in grass of Arcady! 

Dear witnesses all-luminous eloquent
Stacked thickly on the tessellated floor!
The soldier-blood stirs in me as of yore
In sire and grandsire who to battle went:
I seem to know the shaded valley tent
The armed and bearded men the thrill of war
Horses that prance to hear the cannon roar
Shrill bugle-calls and camp-fire merriment.
And as fair symbols of heroic things
Not void of tears mine eyes must e'en behold
These banners lovelier as the deeper marred:
A panegyric never writ for kings
On every tarnished staff and tattered fold
And by them tranquil spirits standing guard.
Eternal Spirit of the chainless Mind!
Brightest in dungeons Liberty thou art
--
For there thy habitation is the heart--
The heart which love of thee alone can bind
And when thy sons to fetters are consigned
To fetters and the damp vault's dayless gloom
Their country conquers with their martyrdom
And Freedom's fame finds wings on every wind.
Chillon! thy prison is a holy place
And thy sad floor an altar for 'twas trod
Until his very steps have left a trace
Worn as if thy cold pavement were a sod
By Bonnivard! May none those marks efface!
For they appeal from tyranny to God.
Loving in truth and fain in verse my love to show
That the dear she might take some pleasure of my pain
Pleasure might cause her read reading might make her know
Knowledge might pity win and pity grace obtain
I sought fit words to paint the blackest face of woe:
Studying inventions fine her wits to entertain
Oft turning others' leaves to see if thence would flow
Some fresh and fruitful showers upon my sunburned brain.
But words came halting forth wanting Invention's stay
Invention Nature's child fled stepdame Study's blows
And others' feet still seemed but strangers in my way.
Thus great with child to speak and helpless in my throes
Biting my truant pen beating myself for spite:
"Fool" said my Muse to me "look in thy heart and write." "Not at the first sight..."
Not at the first sight nor with a dribbed shot
Love gave the wound which while I breathe will bleed
But known worth did in mine of time proceed
Till by degrees it had full conquest got.
I saw and liked
I liked but loved not
I loved but straight did not what love decreed
At length to love's decrees I forced agreed
Yet with repining at so partial lot.
Now even that footstep of lost liberty
Is gone and now like slave-born Muscovite
I call it praise to suffer tyranny
And now employ the remnant of my wit
To make me self believe that all is well
While with a feeling skill I paint my hell. "Let dainty wits cry on the sisters nine"
Let dainty wits cry on the sisters nine
That bravely masked their fancies may be told
Or Pindar's apes flaunt they in phrases fine
Enam'ling with pied flowers their thoughts of gold
Or else let them in statelier glory shine
Ennobling new-found tropes with problems old
Or with strange similes enrich each line
Of herbs or beasts which Ind or Afric hold.
For me in sooth no Muse but one I know
Phrases and problems from my reach do grow
And strange things cost too dear for my poor sprites.
How then? even thus--in Stella's face I read
What love and beauty be then all my deed
But copying is what in her Nature writes. "It is most true..."
It is most true that eyes are formed to serve
The inward light and that the heavenly part
Ought to be king from whose rules who do swerve
Rebels to nature strive for their own smart.
It is most true what we call Cupid's dart
An image is which for ourselves we carve
And fools adore in temple of our heart
Till that good god make church and churchman starve.
True that true beauty virtue is indeed
Whereof this beauty can be but a shade
Which elements with mortal mixture breed.
True that on earth we are but pilgrims made
And should in soul up to our country move
True and yet true that I must Stella love. "Some lovers speak when they their muses entertain"
Some lovers speak when they their muses entertain
Of hopes begot by fear of wot not what desires
Of force of heav'nly beams infusing hellish pain
Of living deaths dear wounds fair storms and freezing fires
Someone his song in Jove and Jove's strange tales attires
Bordered with bulls and swans powdered with golden rain
Another humbler wit to shepherd's pipe retires
Yet hiding royal blood full oft in rural vein
To some a sweetest plaint a sweetest style affords
While tears pour out his ink and sighs breathe out his words
His paper pale despair and pain his pen doth move.
I can speak what I feel and feel as much as they
But think that all the map of my state I display
When trembling voice brings forth that I do Stella love. "Alas have I not pain enough"
Alas have I not pain enough
my friend
Upon whose breast a fiercer gripe doth tire
Than did on him who first stole down the fire
While Love on me doth all his quiver spend
But with your rhubarb words ye must contend
To grieve me worse in saying that desire
Doth plunge my well-formed soul even in the mire
Of sinful thoughts which do in ruin end?
If that be sin which doth the manners frame
Well stayed with truth in word and faith of deed
Ready of wit and fearing nought but shame
If that be sin which in fixed hearts doth breed
A loathing of all loose unchastity
Then love is sin and let me sinful be. "You that do search for every purling spring"
You that do search for every purling spring
Which from the ribs of old Parnassus flows
And every flower not sweet perhaps which grows
Near thereabouts into your poesy wring
You that do dictionary's method bring
Into your rhymes running in rattling rows
You that poor Petrarch's long-deceased woes
With new-born sighs and denizened wit do sing
You take wrong ways those far-fet helps be such
As do bewray a want of inward touch
And sure at length stol'n goods do come to light.
But if both for your love and skill your name
You seek to nurse at fullest breasts of Fame
Stella behold and then begin to endite.
Fly fly my friends I have my death wound fly
See there that boy that murth'ring boy I say
Who like a thief hid in dark bush doth lie
Till bloody bullet get him wrongful prey.
So tyrant he no fitter place could spy
Nor so fair level in so secret stay
As that sweet black which veils the heav'nly eye
There himself with his shot he close doth lay.
Poor passenger pass now thereby I did
And stayed pleased with the prospect of the place
While that black hue from me the bad guest hid
But straight I saw motions of lightning grace
And then descried the glist'ring of his dart
But ere I could fly thence it pierced my heart. 
Your words my friend (right healthful caustics) blame
My young mind marred whom love doth windlass so
That mine own writings like bad servants show
My wits quick in vain thoughts in virtue lame
That Plato I read for nought but if he tame
Such coltish years
that to my birth I owe
Nobler desires lest else that friendly foe
Great expectation wear a train of shame.
For since mad March great promise made of me
If now the May of my years much decline
What can be hoped my harvest time will be?
Sure you say well Your wisdom's golden mine
Dig deep with learning's spade. Now tell me this
Hath this world aught so fair as Stella is? 
Rich fools there be whose base and filthy heart
Lies hatching still the goods wherein they flow
And damning their own selves to Tantal's smart
Wealth breeding want more blest more wretched grow.
Yet to those fools heaven such wit doth impart
As what their hands do hold their heads do know
And knowing love
and loving lay apart
As sacred things far from all danger's show.
But that rich fool who by blind fortune's lot
The richest gem of love and life enjoys
And can with foul abuse such beauties blot
Let him deprived of sweet but unfelt joys
Exiled for aye from those high treasures which
He knows not grow in only folly rich! "You that with allegory's curious frame"
You that with allegory's curious frame
Of others' children changelings use to make
With me those pains for God's sake do not take
I list not dig so deep for brazen fame.
When I say Stella I do mean the same
Princess of beauty for whose only sake
The reins of love I love though never slake
And joy therein though nations count it shame.
I beg no subject to use eloquence
Nor in hid ways do guide philosophy
Look at my hands for no such quintessence
But know that I in pure simplicity
Breathe out the flames which burn within my heart
Love only reading unto me this art. "Whether the Turkish new moon minded be"
Whether the Turkish new-moon minded be
To fill her horns this year on Christian coast
How Poles' right king means without leave of host
To warm with ill-made fire cold Muscovy
If French can yet three parts in one agree
What now the Dutch in their full diets boast
How Holland hearts now so good towns be lost
Trust in the shade of pleasing Orange-tree
How Ulster likes of that same golden bit
Wherewith my father once made it half tame
If in the Scotch Court be no welt'ring yet:
These questions busy wits to me do frame.
I cumbered with good manners answer do
But know not how for still I think of you. "With how sad steps..."
With how sad steps O Moon thou climb'st the skies!
How silently and with how wan a face!
What! may it be that even in heavenly place
That busy archer his sharp arrows tries?
Sure if that long-with-love-acquainted eyes
Can judge of love thou feel'st a lover's case:
I read it in thy looks
thy languish'd grace
To me that feel the like thy state descries.
Then even of fellowship O Moon tell me
Is constant love deem'd there but want of wit?
Are beauties there as proud as here they be?
Do they above love to be loved and yet
Those lovers scorn whom that love doth possess?
Do they call "virtue" there--ungratefulness? "I might--unhappy word!--oh me I might"
I might--unhappy word!--oh me I might
And then would not or could not see my bliss
Till now wrapped in a most infernal night
I find how heav'nly day wretch I did miss.
Heart rent thyself thou dost thyself but right
No lovely Paris made thy Helen his
No force no fraud robbed thee of thy delight
Nor fortune of thy fortune author is
But to myself myself did give the blow
While too much wit forsooth so troubled me
That I respects for both our sakes must show
And yet could not by rising morn foresee
How fair a day was near
oh punished eyes
That I had been more foolish--or more wise! 

Come let me write. And to what end? To ease
A burthened heart. How can words ease which are
The glasses of thy daily vexing care?
Oft cruel fights well pictured forth do please.
Art not ashamed to publish thy disease?
Nay that may breed my fame it is so rare.
But will not wise men think thy words fond ware?
Then be they close and so none shall displease.
What idler thing than speak and not be heard?
What harder thing than smart and not to speak?
Peace foolish wit! with wit my wit is marred.
Thus write I while I doubt to write and wreak
My harms on ink's poor loss. Perhaps some find
Stella's great powers that so confuse my mind.

What may words say or what may words not say
Where truth itself must speak like flattery?
Within what bounds can one his liking stay
Where nature doth with infinite agree?
What Nestor's counsel can my flames allay
Since reason's self doth blow the coal in me?
And ah what hope that hope should once see day
Where Cupid is sworn page to chastity?
Honor is honored that thou dost possess
Him as thy slave and now long-needy Fame
Doth even grow rich naming my Stella's name.
Wit learns in thee perfection to express
Not thou by praise but praise in thee is raised
It is a praise to praise when thou art praised. 

My mouth doth water and my breast doth swell
My tongue doth itch my thoughts in labor be
Listen then lordings with good ear to me
For of my life I must a riddle tell.
Toward Aurora's court a nymph doth dwell
Rich in all beauties which man's eye can see
Beauties so far from reach of words that we
Abase her praise saying she doth excel
Rich in the treasure of deserved renown
Rich in the riches of a royal heart
Rich in those gifts which give th' eternal crown
Who though most rich in these and every part
Which make the patents of true worldly bliss
Hath no misfortune but that Rich she is. 

Come Sleep O Sleep! the certain knot of peace
The baiting place of wit the balm of woe
The poor man's wealth the prisoner's release
Th' indifferent judge between the high and low
With shield of proof shield me from out the prease
of those fierce darts despair at me doth throw:
O make in me those civil wars to cease
I will good tribute pay if thou do so.
Take thou of me smooth pillows sweetest bed
A chamber deaf to noise and blind to light
A rosy garland and a weary head:
And if these things as being thine by right
Move not thy heavy grace thou shalt in me
Livelier than elsewhere Stella's image see. 

As good to write as for to lie and groan.
O Stella dear how much thy power hath wrought
That hast my mind none of the basest brought
My still-kept course while other sleep to moan
Alas if from the height of virtue's throne
Thou canst vouchsafe the influence of a thought
Upon a wretch that long thy grace hath sought
Weigh then how I by thee am overthrown
And then think thus--although thy beauty be
Made manifest by such a victory
Yet noblest conquerors do wrecks avoid.
Since then thou hast so far subdued me
That in my heart I offer still to thee
Oh do not let thy temple be destroyed. 

Having this day my horse my hand my lance
Guided so well that I obtained the prize
Both by the judgment of the English eyes
And of some sent from that sweet enemy France
Horsemen my skill in horsemanship advance
Town-folks my strength
a daintier judge applies
His praise to sleight which from good use doth rise
Some lucky wits impute it but to chance
Others because of both sides I do take
My blood from them who did excel in this
Think nature me a man of arms did make.
How far they shot awry! The true cause is
Stella looked on and from her heav'nly face
Sent forth the beams which made so fair my race. 

Stella oft sees the very face of woe
Painted in my beclouded stormy face
But cannot skill to pity my disgrace
Not though thereof the cause herself she know
Yet hearing late a fable which did show
Of lovers never known a grievous case
Pity thereof gat in her breast such place
That from the sea derived tears' spring did flow.
Alas if fancy drawn by imaged things
Though false yet with free scope more grace doth breed
Than servant's wrack where new doubts honor brings
Then think my dear that you in me do read
Of lovers' ruin some sad tragedy.
I am not I
pity the tale of me. 

Because I breathe not love to everyone
Nor do not use set colors for to wear
Nor nourish special locks of vowed hair
Nor give each speech a full point of a groan
The courtly nymphs acquainted with the moan
Of them who in their lips Love's standard bear
What he! say they of me Now I dare swear
He cannot love
no no let him alone.
And think so still so Stella know my mind
Profess indeed I do not Cupid's art
But you fair maids at length this true shall find
That his right badge is but worn in the heart
Dumb swans not chatt'ring pies do lovers prove
They love indeed who quake to say they love. 

Muses I oft invoked your holy aid
With choicest flowers my speech t' engarland so
That it despised in true but naked show
Might win some grace in your sweet grace arrayed
And oft whole troops of saddest words I stayed
Striving abroad a-foraging to go
Until by your inspiring I might know
How their black banner might be best displayed.
But now I mean no more your help to try
Nor other sug'ring of my speech to prove
But on her name incessantly to cry
For let me but name her whom I do love
So sweet sounds straight mine ear and heart do hit
That I well find no eloquence like it.

O grammar-rules O now your virtues show
So children still read you with awful eyes
As my young dove may in your precepts wise
Her grant to me by her own virtue know
For late with heart most high with eyes most low
I craved the thing which ever she denies
She lightning Love displaying Venus' skies
Lest once should not be heard twice said No No!
Sing then my muse now Io Paean sing
Heav'ns envy not at my high triumphing
But grammar's force with sweet success confirm
For grammar says--oh this dear Stella weigh
For grammar says--to grammar who says nay?
That in one speech two negatives affirm! 

Who will in fairest book of Nature know
How virtue may best lodg'd in beauty be
Let him but learn of Love to read in thee
Stella those fair lines which true goodness show.
There shall he find all vices' overthrow
Not by rude force but sweetest sovranty
Of reason from whose light those night-birds fly
That inward sun in thine eyes shineth so.
And not content to be Perfection's heir
Thyself dost strive all minds that way to move
Who mark in thee what is in thee most fair.
So while thy beauty draws the heart to love
As fast that virtue bends that love to good.
But ah Desire still cries: "Give me some food!" 

My true-love hath my heart and I have his
By just exchange one for the other given:
I hold his dear and mine he cannot miss
There never was a bargain better driven.
His heart in me keeps me and him in one
My heart in him his thoughts and senses guides:
He loves my heart for once it was his own
I cherish his because in me it bides.
His heart his wound received from my sight
My heart was wounded with his wounded heart
For as from me on him his hurt did light
So still methought in me his hurt did smart:
Both equal hurt in this change sought our bliss
My true love hath my heart and I have his. 

Thou blind man's mark thou fool's self-chosen snare
Fond fancy's scum and dregs of scattered thought
Band of all evils cradle of causeless care
Thou web of will whose end is never wrought:
Desire Desire! I have too dearly bought
With price of mangled mind thy worthless ware
Too long too long asleep thou hast me brought
Who shouldst my mind to higher things prepare
But yet in vain thou hast my ruin sought
In vain thou mad'st me to vain things aspire
In vain thou kindlest all thy smoky fire
For Virtue hath this better lesson taught:
Within myself to seek my only hire
Desiring nought but how to kill Desire.
Leave me O Love which reachest but to dust
And thou my mind aspire to higher things
Grow rich in that which never taketh rust
Whatever fades but fading pleasure brings.
Draw in thy beams and humble all thy might
To that sweet yoke where lasting freedoms be
Which breaks the clouds and opens forth the light
That doth both shine and give us light to see.
O take fast hold
let that light be thy guide
In this small course which birth draws out to death
And think how evil becometh him to slide
Who seeketh heaven and comes of heavenly breath.
Then farewell world
thy uttermost I see:
Eternal Love maintain thy life in me.
Although she feeds me bread of bitterness
And sinks into my throat her tiger's tooth
Stealing my breath of life I will confess
I love this cultured hell that tests my youth!
Her vigor flows like tides into my blood
Giving me strength erect against her hate.
Her bigness sweeps my being like a flood.
Yet as a rebel fronts a king in state
I stand within her walls with not a shred
Of terror malice not a word of jeer.
Darkly I gaze into the days ahead
And see her might and granite wonders there
Beneath the touch of Time's unerring hand
Like priceless treasures sinking in the sand. 

Aleta mentions in her tender letters
Among a chain of quaint and touching things
That you are feeble weighted down with fetters
And given to strange deeds and mutterings.
No longer without trace or thought of fear
Do you leap to and ride the rebel roan
But have become the victim of grim care
With three brown beauties to support alone.
But none the less will you be in my mind
Wild May that cantered by the risky ways
With showy head-cloth flirting in the wind
From market in the glad December days
Wild May of whom even other girls could rave
Before sex tamed your spirit made you slave. 

I would be wandering in distant fields
Where man and bird and beast lives leisurely
And the old earth is kind and ever yields
Her goodly gifts to all her children free
Where life is fairer lighter less demanding
And boys and girls have time and space for play
Before they come to years of understanding--
Somewhere I would be singing far away.
For life is greater than the thousand wars
Men wage for it in their insatiate lust
And will remain like the eternal stars
When all that shines to-day is drift and dust
But I am bound with you in your mean graves
O black men simple slaves of ruthless slaves. 

Oh when I think of my long-suffering race
For weary centuries despised oppressed
Enslaved and lynched denied a human place
In the great life line of the Christian West
And in the Black Land disinherited
Robbed in the ancient country of its birth
My heart grows sick with hate becomes as lead
For this my race that has no home on earth.
Then from the dark depths of my soul I cry
To the avenging angel to consume
The white man's world of wonders utterly:
Let it be swallowed up in earth's vast womb
Or upward roll as sacrificial smoke
To liberate my people from its yoke!

I shall return again
I shall return
To laugh and love and watch with wonder-eyes
At golden noon the forest fires burn
Wafting their blue-black smoke to sapphire skies.
I shall return to loiter by the streams
That bathe the brown blades of the bending grasses
And realize once more my thousand dreams
Of waters rushing down the mountain passes.
I shall return to hear the fiddle and fife
Of village dances dear delicious tunes
That stir the hidden depths of native life
Stray melodies of dim remembered runes.
I shall return I shall return again
To ease my mind of long long years of pain.

Reg wished me to go with him to the field
I paused because I did not want to go
But in her quiet way she made me yield
Reluctantly for she was breathing low.
Her hand she slowly lifted from her lap
And smiling sadly in the old sweet way
She pointed to the nail where hung my cap.
Her eyes said: I shall last another day.
But scarcely had we reached the distant place
When o'er the hills we heard a faint bell ringing
A boy came running up with frightened face
We knew the fatal news that he was bringing.
I heard him listlessly without a moan
Although the only one I loved was gone. 

The dawn departs the morning is begun
The trades come whispering from off the seas
The fields of corn are golden in the sun
The dark-brown tassels fluttering in the breeze
The bell is sounding and the children pass
Frog-leaping skipping shouting laughing shrill
Down the red road over the pasture-grass
Up to the school-house crumbling on the hill.
The older folk are at their peaceful toil
Some pulling up the weeds some plucking corn
And others breaking up the sun-baked soil.
Float faintly-scented breeze at early morn
Over the earth where mortals sow and reap--
Beneath its breast my mother lies asleep. 

The sun sought thy dim bed and brought forth light
The sciences were sucklings at thy breast
When all the world was young in pregnant night
Thy slaves toiled at thy monumental best.
Thou ancient treasure-land thou modern prize
New peoples marvel at thy pyramids!
The years roll on thy sphinx of riddle eyes
Watches the mad world with immobile lids.
The Hebrews humbled them at Pharaoh's name.
Cradle of Power! Yet all things were in vain!
Honor and Glory Arrogance and Fame!
They went. The darkness swallowed thee again.
Thou art the harlot now thy time is done
Of all the mighty nations of the sun.

Here passing lonely down this quiet lane
Before a mud-splashed window long I pause
To gaze and gaze while through my active brain
Still thoughts are stirred to wakefulness
because
Long long ago in a dim unknown land
A massive forest-tree ax-felled adze-hewn
Was deftly done by cunning mortal hand
Into a symbol of the tender moon.
Why does it thrill more than the handsome boat
That bore me o'er the wild Atlantic ways
And fill me with rare sense of things remote
From this harsh land of fretful nights and days?
I cannot answer but whate'er it be
An old wine has intoxicated me.

Stay season of calm love and soulful snows!
There is a subtle sweetness in the sun
The ripples on the stream's breast gaily run
The wind more boisterously by me blows
And each succeeding day now longer grows.
The birds a gladder music have begun
The squirrel full of mischief and of fun
From maples' topmost branch the brown twig throws.
I read these pregnant signs know what they mean:
I know that thou art making ready to go.
Oh stay! I fled a land where fields are green
Always and palms wave gently to and fro
And winds are balmy blue brooks ever sheen
To ease my heart of its impassioned woe. 

Roar of the rushing train fearfully rocking
Impatient people jammed in line for food
The rasping noise of cars together knocking
And worried waiters some in ugly mood
Crowding into the choking pantry hole
To call out dishes for each angry glutton
Exasperated grown beyond control
From waiting for his soup or fish or mutton.
At last the station's reached the engine stops
For bags and wraps the red-caps circle round
From off the step the passenger lightly hops
And seeks his cab or tram-car homeward bound
The waiters pass out weary listless glum
To spend their tips on harlots cards and rum. 

Applauding youths laughed with young prostitutes
And watched her perfect half-clothed body sway
Her voice was like the sound of blended flutes
Blown by black players upon a picnic day.
She sang and danced on gracefully and calm
The light gauze hanging loose about her form
To me she seemed a proudly-swaying palm
Grown lovelier for passing through a storm.
Upon her swarthy neck black shiny curls
Luxuriant fell
and tossing coins in praise
The wine-flushed bold-eyed boys and even the girls
Devoured her shape with eager passionate gaze
But looking at her falsely-smiling face
I knew her self was not in that strange place.

The Dawn! The Dawn! The crimson-tinted comes
Out of the low still skies over the hills
Manhattan's roofs and spires and cheerless domes!
The Dawn! My spirit to its spirit thrills.
Almost the mighty city is asleep
No pushing crowd no tramping tramping feet.
But here and there a few cars groaning creep
Along above and underneath the street
Bearing their strangely-ghostly burdens by
The women and the men of garish nights
Their eyes wine-weakened and their clothes awry
Grotesques beneath the strong electric lights.
The shadows wane. The Dawn comes to New York.
And I go darkly-rebel to my work. 

O whisper O my soul! The afternoon
Is waning into evening whisper soft!
Peace O my rebel heart! for soon the moon
From out its misty veil will swing aloft!
Be patient weary body soon the night
Will wrap thee gently in her sable sheet
And with a leaden sigh thou wilt invite
To rest thy tired hands and aching feet.
The wretched day was theirs the night is mine
Come tender sleep and fold me to thy breast.
But what steals out the gray clouds like red wine?
O dawn! O dreaded dawn! O let me rest
Weary my veins my brain my life! Have pity!
No! Once again the harsh the ugly city. 

For the dim regions whence my fathers came
My spirit bondaged by the body longs.
Words felt but never heard my lips would frame
My soul would sing forgotten jungle songs.
I would go back to darkness and to peace
But the great western world holds me in fee
And I may never hope for full release
While to its alien gods I bend my knee.
Something in me is lost forever lost
Some vital thing has gone out of my heart
And I must walk the way of life a ghost
Among the sons of earth a thing apart
For I was born far from my native clime
Under the white man's menace out of time. 

I plucked my soul out of its secret place
And held it to the mirror of my eye
To see it like a star against the sky
A twitching body quivering in space
A spark of passion shining on my face.
And I explored it to determine why
This awful key to my infinity
Conspires to rob me of sweet joy and grace.
And if the sign may not be fully read
If I can comprehend but not control
I need not gloom my days with futile dread
Because I see a part and not the whole.
Contemplating the strange I'm comforted
By this narcotic thought: I know my soul. 

Their shadow dims the sunshine of our day
As they go lumbering across the sky
Squawking in joy of feeling safe on high
Beating their heavy wings of owlish gray.
They scare the singing birds of earth away
As greed-impelled they circle threateningly
Watching the toilers with malignant eye
From their exclusive haven--birds of prey.
They swoop down for the spoil in certain might
And fasten in our bleeding flesh their claws.
They beat us to surrender weak with fright
And tugging and tearing without let or pause
They flap their hideous wings in grim delight
And stuff our gory hearts into their maws. 

The vivid grass with visible delight
Springing triumphant from the pregnant earth
The butterflies and sparrows in brief flight
Chirping and dancing for the season's birth
The dandelions and rare daffodils
That touch the deep-stirred heart with hands of gold
The thrushes sending forth their joyous trills--
Not these not these did I at first behold!
But seated on the benches daubed with green
The castaways of life a few asleep
Some withered women desolate and mean
And over all life's shadows dark and deep.
Moaning I turned away for misery
I have the strength to bear but not to see. 

His Spirit in smoke ascended to high heaven.
His father by the cruelest way of pain
Had bidden him to his bosom once again
The awful sin remained still unforgiven.
All night a bright and solitary star
(Perchance the one that ever guided him
Yet gave him up at last to Fate's wild whim)
Hung pitifully o'er the swinging char.
Day dawned and soon the mixed crowds came to view
The ghastly body swaying in the sun
The women thronged to look but never a one
Showed sorrow in her eyes of steely blue
And little lads lynchers that were to be
Danced round the dreadful thing in fiendish glee. 

Into the furnace let me go alone
Stay you without in terror of the heat.
I will go naked in--for thus 'tis sweet--
Into the weird depths of the hottest zone.
I will not quiver in the frailest bone
You will not note a flicker of defeat
My heart shall tremble not its fate to meet
My mouth give utterance to any moan.
The yawning oven spits forth fiery spears
Red aspish tongues shout wordlessly my name.
Desire destroys consumes my mortal fears
Transforming me into a shape of flame.
I will come out back to your world of tears
A stronger soul within a finer frame.

If we must die let it not be like hogs
Hunted and penned in an inglorious spot
While round us bark the mad and hungry dogs
Making their mock at our accursed lot.
If we must die O let us nobly die
So that our precious blood may not be shed
In vain
then even the monsters we defy
Shall be constrained to honor us though dead!
O kinsmen! we must meet the common foe!
Though far outnumbered let us show us brave
And for their thousand blows deal one death-blow!
What though before us lies the open grave?
Like men we'll face the murderous cowardly pack
Pressed to the wall dying but fighting back! 

No engines shrieking rescue storm the night
And hose and hydrant cannot here avail
The flames laugh high and fling their challenging light
And clouds turn gray and black from silver-pale.
The fire leaps out and licks the ancient walls
And the big building bends and twists and groans.
A bar drops from its place
a rafter falls
Burning the flowers. The wind in frenzy moans.
The watchers gaze held wondering by the fire
The dwellers cry their sorrow to the crowd
The flames beyond themselves rise higher higher
To lose their glory in the frowning cloud
Yielding at length the last reluctant breath.
And where life lay asleep broods darkly death. 

Sometimes I tremble like a storm-swept flower
And seek to hide my tortured soul from thee.
Bowing my head in deep humility
Before the silent thunder of thy power.
Sometimes I flee before thy blazing light
As from the specter of pursuing death
Intimidated lest thy mighty breath
Windways will sweep me into utter night.
For oh I fear they will be swallowed up--
The loves which are to me of vital worth
My passion and my pleasure in the earth--
And lost forever in thy magic cup!
I fear I fear my truly human heart
Will perish on the altar-stone of art! 

Throughout the afternoon I watched them there
Snow-fairies falling falling from the sky
Whirling fantastic in the misty air
Contending fierce for space supremacy.
And they flew down a mightier force at night
As though in heaven there was revolt and riot
And they frail things had taken panic flight
Down to the calm earth seeking peace and quiet.
I went to bed and rose at early dawn
To see them huddled together in a heap
Each merged into the other upon the lawn
Worn out by the sharp struggle fast asleep.
The sun shone brightly on them half the day
By night they stealthily had stol'n away.

And suddenly my thoughts then turned to you
Who came to me upon a winter's night
When snow-sprites round my attic window flew
Your hair disheveled eyes aglow with light.
My heart was like the weather when you came
The wanton winds were blowing loud and long
But you with joy and passion all aflame
You danced and sang a lilting summer song.
I made room for you in my little bed
Took covers from the closet fresh and warm
A downful pillow for your scented head
And lay down with you resting in my arm.
You went with Dawn. You left me ere the day
The lonely actor of a dreamy play.

About Soho we went before the light
We went unresting six craving new fun
New scenes new raptures for the fevered night
Of rollicking laughter drink and song was done.
The vault was void but for the dawn's great star
That shed upon our path its silver flame
When La Paloma on a low guitar
Abruptly from a darkened casement came--
Harlem! All else shut out I saw the hall
And you in your red shoulder sash come dancing
With Val against me languid by the wall
Your burning coffee-colored eyes keen glancing
Aslant at mine proud in your golden glory!
I loved you Cuban girl fond sweet Diory. 

Not once in all our days of poignant love
Did I a single instant give to thee
My undivided being wholly free.
Not all thy potent passion could remove
The barrier that loomed between to prove
The full supreme surrendering of me.
Oh I was beaten helpless utterly
Against the shadow-fact with which I strove.
For when a cruel power forced me to face
The truth which poisoned our illicit wine
That even I was faithless to my race
Bleeding beneath the iron hand of thine
Our union seemed a monstrous thing and base!
I was an outcast from thy world and mine. 

Adventure-seasoned and storm-buffeted
I shun all signs of anchorage because
The zest of life exceeds the bound of laws.
New gales of tropic fury round my head
Break lashing me through hours of soulful dread
But when the terror thins and spent withdraws
Leaving me wondering awhile I pause--
But soon again the risky ways I tread!
No rigid road for me no peace no rest
While molten elements run through my blood
And beauty-burning bodies manifest
Their warm heart-melting motions to be wooed
And passion boldly rising in my breast
Like rivers of the Spring lets loose its flood.

My spirit wails for water water now!
My tongue is aching dry my throat is hot
For water fresh rain shaken from a bough
Or dawn dews heavy in some leafy spot.
My hungry body's burning for a swim
In sunlit water where the air is cool
As in Trout Valley where upon a limb
The golden finch sings sweetly to the pool.
Oh water water when the night is done
When day steals gray-white through the windowpane
Clear silver water when I wake alone
All impotent of parts of fevered brain
Pure water from a forest fountain first
To wash me cleanse me and to quench my thirst!

Oh I have tried to laugh the pain away
Let new flames brush my love-springs like a feather.
But the old fever seizes me to-day
As sickness grips a soul in wretched weather.
I have given up myself to every urge
With not a care of precious powers spent
Have bared my body to the strangest scourge
To soothe and deaden my heart's unhealing rent.
But you have torn a nerve out of my frame
A gut that no physician can replace
And reft my life of happiness and aim.
Oh what new purpose shall I now embrace?
What substance hold what lovely form pursue
When my thought burns through everything to you?

All night through the eternity of night
Pain was my potion though I could not feel.
Deep in my humbled heart you ground your heel
Till I was reft of even my inner light
Till reason from my mind had taken flight
And all my world went whirling in a reel.
And all my swarthy strength turned cold like steel
A passive mass beneath your puny might.
Last night I gave you triumph over me
So I should be myself as once before
I marveled at your shallow mystery
And haunted hungrily your temple door.
I gave you sum and substance to be free
Oh you shall never triumph any more!

I do not fear to face the fact and say
How darkly-dull my living hours have grown
My wounded heart sinks heavier than stone
Because I loved you longer than a day!
I do not shame to turn myself away
From beckoning flowers beautifully blown
To mourn your vivid memory alone
In mountain fastnesses austerely gray.
The mists will shroud me on the utter height
The salty brimming waters of my breast
Will mingle with the fresh dews of the night
To bathe my spirit hankering to rest.
But after sleep I'll wake with greater might
Once more to venture on the eternal quest.

Now do I know that Love is blind for I
Can see no beauty on this beauteous earth
No life no light no hopefulness no mirth
Pleasure nor purpose when thou art not nigh.
Thy absence exiles sunshine from the sky
Seres Spring's maturity checks Summer's birth
Leaves linnet's pipe as sad as plover's cry
And makes me in abundance find but dearth.
But when thy feet flutter the dark and thou
With orient eyes dawnest on my distress
Suddenly sings a bird on every bough
The heavens expand the earth grows less and less
The ground is buoyant as the ether now
And all looks lovely in thy loveliness. 

Now on the summit of Love's topmost peak
Kiss we and part
no further can we go:
And better death than we from high to low
Should dwindle or decline from strong to weak.
We have found all there is no more to seek
All have we proved no more is there to know
And time could only tutor us to eke
Out rapture's warmth with custom's afterglow.
We cannot keep at such a height as this
For even straining souls like ours inhale
But once in life so rarefied a bliss.
What if we lingered till love's breath should fail!
Heaven of my Earth! one more celestial kiss
Then down by separate pathways to the vale.

The leaves have not yet gone
then why do ye come
O white flakes falling from a dusky cloud?
But yesterday my garden-plot was proud
With uncut sheaves of ripe chrysanthemum.
Some trees the winds have stripped
but look on some
'Neath double load of snow and foliage bowed
Unnatural Winter fashioning a shroud
For Autumn's burial ere its pulse be numb.
Yet Nature plays not an inhuman part:
In her our own vicissitudes we trace.
Do we not cling to our accustomed place
Though journeying Death have beckoned us to start?
And faded smiles oft linger in the face
While grief's first flakes fall silent on the heart!

Within the hollow silence of the night
I lay awake and listened. I could hear
Planet with punctual planet chiming clear
And unto star star cadencing aright.
Nor these alone: cloistered from deafening sight
All things that are made music to my ear:
Hushed woods dumb caves and many a soundless mere
With Arctic mains in rigid sleep locked tight.
But ever with this chant from shore and sea
From singing constellation humming thought
And Life through Time's stops blowing variously
A melancholy undertone was wrought
And from its boundless prison-house I caught
The awful wail of lone Eternity.

Now upon English soil I soon shall stand
Homeward from climes that fancy deems more fair
And well I know that there will greet me there
No soft foam fawning upon smiling strand
No scent of orange-groves no zephyrs bland
But Amazonian March with breast half bare
And sleety arrows whistling through the air
Will be my welcome from that burly land.
Yet he who boasts his birth-place yonder lies
Owns in his heart a mood akin to scorn
For sensuous slopes that bask 'neath Southern skies
Teeming with wine and prodigal of corn
And gazing through the mist with misty eyes
Blesses the brave bleak land where he was born.

When acorns fall and swallows troop for flight
And hope matured slow mellows to regret
And Autumn pressed by Winter for his debt
Drops leaf on leaf till she be beggared quite
Should then the crescent moon's unselfish light
Gleam up the sky just as the sun doth set
Her brightening gaze though day and dark have met
Prolongs the gloaming and retards the night.
So fair young life new risen upon mine
Just as it owns the edict of decay
And Fancy's fires should pale and pass away
My menaced glory takes a glow from thine
And in the deepening sundown of my day
Thou with thy dawn delayest my decline.

Gently most gently on thy victim's head
Consumption lay thine hand! Let me decay
Like the expiring lamp unseen away
And softly go to slumber with the dead!
And if it is true what holy men have said
That strains angelic oft foretell the day
Of death to those good men who fall thy prey
O let the arial music round my bed
Dissolving slow in dying symphony
Whisper the solemn warnings to my ear:
That I may bid my weeping friends good-bye
Ere I depart upon my journey drear
And smiling faintly on the painful past
Compose my decent head and breathe my last. 

Yes it will be over soon.--This sickly dream
Of life will vanish from my feverish brain
And death my wearied spirit will redeem
From this wild region of unvaried pain.
Yon brook will glide as softly as before
Yon landscape smile--yon golden harvest grow
Yon sprightly lark on mounting wing will soar
When Henry's name is heard no more below.
I sigh when all my youthful friends caress
They laugh in health and future evils brave
Them shall a wife and smiling children bless
While I am mouldering in my silent grave.
God of the just Thou gavest the bitter cup
I bow to Thy behest and drink it up. 

As thus oppressed with many a heavy care
(Though young yet sorrowful) I turn my feet
To the dark woodland longing much to greet
The form of peace if chance she sojourn there
Deep thought and dismal verging to despair
Fills my sad breast
and tired with this vain coil
I shrink dismayed before life's upland toil
And as amid the leaves the evening air
Whispers still melody
--I think ere long
When I no more can hear these woods will speak
And then a sad smile plays upon my cheek
And mournful fantasies upon me throng
And I do ponder with most strange delight
On the calm slumbers of the dead man's night. 

Misfortune I am young my chin is bare
And I have wondered much when men have told
How youth was free from sorrow and from care
That thou shouldst dwell with me and leave the old.
Sure dost not like me!--Shrivelled hag of hate
My phiz--and thanks to thee--is sadly long
I am not either beldame over strong
Nor do I wish at all to be thy mate
For thou sweet fury art my utter hate.
Nay shake not thus thy miserable pate
I am yet young and do not like thy face
And lest thou shouldst resume the wild-goose chase
I'll tell thee something all thy heat to assuage
Thou wilt not hit my fancy in my age.

Let the sublimer Muse who wrapt in night
Rides on the raven pennons of the storm
Or o'er the field with purple havock warm
Lashes her steeds and sings along the fight--
Let her whom more ferocious strains delight
Disdain the plaintive sonnet's little form
And scorn to its mild cadence to conform
The impetuous tenor of her hardy flight.
But me far lowliest of the sylvan train
Who wake the wood-nymphs from the forest shade
With wildest song--me much behooves the aid
Of mingled melody to grace my strain
And give it power to please as soft it flows
Through the smooth murmurs of thy frequent close.
Dost thou do well dear idol of my heart!
To thrall me in the meshes of thy charms
To fill my constant soul with soft alarms
Then coyly thrust me from thy love apart?
Pluck from my breast I pluck the mystic dart!
Yield--or I perish--to these folding arms!
Assuage the hunger of this sick desire
That wraps me like an aromatic fire!--
Oh lull with thy ambrosial breath the swarms
Of wounded thoughts that issue from my brain
And seek thy presence seek thee day and night
And on thy brow and eyes and lips alight
Extracting aye a honey that is pain!--
Oh save me with thy kisses or kill me quite!
The cloudy blackness gathers over the sky
Shadowing these realms with that portentous storm
Ere long to burst and haply to deform
Fair nature's face: for indignation high
Might hurl promiscuous vengeance with wild hand
And fear with fierce precipitation throw
Blind ruin wide: while hate with scowling brow
Feigns patriot rage.
O Priestley! for thy wand
Or Franklin! thine with calm expectant joy
To tame the storm and with mysterious force
In viewless channel shape the lightning's course
To purify creation not destroy.
So should fair order from the tempest rise
And freedom's sun-beams gild unclouded skies.
Although we do not all the good we love
But still in love desire to do the same
Nor leave the sins we hate but hating move
Our soul and body's powers their powers to tame
The good we do God takes as done aright
That we desire to do he takes as done
The sin we shun he will with grace requite
And not impute the sin we seek to shun.
But good desires produce no worser deeds
For God doth both together lightly give
Because he knows a righteous man must needs
By faith that works by love forever live.
Then to do nought but only in desire
Is love that burns but burns like painted fire. 

Some blaze the precious beauties of their loves
By precious stones and other some by flowers
Some by the planets and celestial powers
Or by what else their fancy best approves
Yet I by none of these will blazon mine
But only say her self herself is like
For those similitudes I much mislike
That are much used though they be divine.
In saying she is like herself I say
She hath no like for she is past compare.
Then who aright commends this creature rare
Must say "She is"
and there of force must stay
Because by words she cannot be expressed
So say "She is" and wond'ring owe the rest.
Black beauty which above that common light
Whose Power can no colours here renew
But those which darkness can again subdue
Do'st still remain unvary'd to the sight
And like an object equal to the view
Art neither chang'd with day nor hid with night
When all these colours which the world call bright
And which old Poetry doth so persue
Are with the night so perished and gone
That of their being there remains no mark
Thou still abidest so intirely one
That we may know thy blackness is a spark
Of light inaccessible and alone
Our darkness which can make us think it dark. 

Thou Black wherein all colours are compos'd
And unto which they all at last return
Thou colour of the Sun where it doth burn
And shadow where it cools in thee is clos'd
Whatever nature can or hath dispos'd
In any other Hue: from thee do rise
Those tempers and complexions which disclos'd
As parts of thee do work as mysteries
Of that thy hidden power
when thou dost reign
The characters of fate shine in the Skies
And tell us what the Heavens do ordain
But when Earth's common light shines to our eyes
Thou so retir'st thyself that thy disdain
All revelation unto Man denies. To Her Face
Fatal Aspect! that hast an Influence
More powerful far than those Immortal Fires
That but incline the Will and move the Sense
Which thou alone contrain'st kindling Desires
Of such an holy force as more inspires
The Soul with Knowledge than Experience
Or Revelation can do with all
Their borrow'd helps: Sacred Astonishment
Sits on thy Brow threatning a sudden fall
To all those Thoughts that are not lowly sent
In wonder and amaze dazling that Eye
Which on those Mysteries doth rudely gaze
Vow'd only unto Love's Divinity:
Sure Adam sinn'd not in that spotless Face. 

Regardful Pretence! whose fix'd Majesty
Darts Admiration on the gazing Look
That brings it not: State sits inthron'd in thee
Divulging forth her Laws in the fair Book
Of thy Commandements which none mistook
That ever humbly came therein to see
Their own unworthiness: Oh! how can I
Enough admire that Symmetry exprest
In new proportions which doth give the Lie
To that Arithmetique which hath profest
All Numbers to be Hers? thy Harmony
Comes from the Spheres and there doth prove
Strange measures so well grac'd as Majesty
Itself like thee would rest like thee would move. 

Exalted Mind! whose Character doth bear
The first Idea of Perfection whence
Adam's came and stands so how canst appear
In words? that only tell what here-
Tofore hath been
thou need'st as deep a sense
As prophecy since there's no difference
In telling what thou art and what shall be:
Then pardon me that Rapture do profess
At thy outside that want for what I see
Description if here amaz'd I cesse
Thus---
Yet grant one Question and no more crav'd under
Thy gracious leave How if thou would'st express
Thyself to us thou should'st be still a wonder? 

Thus ends my Love but this doth grieve me most
That so it ends but that ends too this yet
Besides the Wishes hopes and time I lost
Troubles my mind awhile that I am set
Free worse then denied: I can neither boast
Choice nor success as my Case is nor get
Pardon from myself
that I loved not
A better Mistress or her worse
this Debt
Only's her due still that she be forgot
Ere chang'd lest I love none
this done the taint
Of foul Inconstancy is clear'd at least
In me there only rests but to unpaint
Her form in my mind that so dispossest
It be a Temple but without a Saint.

Here lies King James who did so propagate
Unto the World that blest and quiet state
Wherein his Subjects liv'd he seem'd to give
That peace which Christ did leave and so did live
As once that King and Shepherd of his Sheep
That whom God saved here he seem'd to keep
Till with that innocent and single heart
With which he first was crown'd he did depart
To better life Great Brittain to lament
That Strangers more then thou may yet resent
The sad effects and while they feel the harm
They must endure from the victorious arm
Of our King Charles may they so long complain
That tears in them force thee to weep again. cesse cease.
In her strange shadowy coronet she weareth
The faded jewels of an earlier time
An ancient sceptre in her hand she beareth--
The purple of her robe is past its prime.
Through her thin silvery locks still dimly shineth
The flower-wreath woven by pale Memory's fingers.
Her heart is withered--yet it strangely shineth
In its lone urn a light that fitful lingers.
With her low muffled voice of mystery
She reads old legends from Time's mouldering pages
She telleth the Present the recorded history
And change perpetual of bygone ages:
Her pilgrim feet still seek the haunted sod
Once ours but now by naught but Memory's footsteps trod.

I left thee when the midnight bell had tolled
Full of fresh hopes and feelings: in thine eyes
All night perpetual meanings did unfold
Quick turns of thought and kindling sympathies
Still those blue eyes looked at me through my sleep
Changed by the power of dreams to fearful things.
They bore me far away where evening flings
Her gorgeous blue on Atlas: they did sweep
Into the bluer sky where comets blaze
And golden creatures live in starry rays.
Onward they went where filmy mist-wreaths creep
About the rolling moon
and fell with me
Into the sunless caverns of the sea
Where spirits all of blue into my soul did gaze!

A spirit came upon me in the night
And led me gently down a rocky stair
Unto a peopled garden green and fair
Where all the day there was an evening light.
Trees out of every nation blended there.
The citron shrub its golden fruit did train
Against an English elm: it was like a dream
Because there was no wind
and things did seem
All near and big like mountains before rain
Far in those twilight bowers beside a stream
The soul of one who had but lately died
Hung listening with a brother at his side
And no one spoke in all that haunted place
But looked quietly into each other's face.

Come now and see yon orient vale outspread
And mark the windings of my favourite rill
For the wan olive-lights are on the hill
Dear autumn's choicest boon
and there is shed
A most surpassing glory on the stream
Kindled just now by evening's purple gleam.
Yon lake with shady islands gave it birth
To it yon English village doth belong
And many a night the joyousness and mirth
Of its dear flow hath been my vesper song.
See how it peeps in meadows fringed with flowers
Or nestles jealously mid leafy bowers
As if it almost felt and shunned to show
The gracefulness that makes men love it so.

Some fall in love with voices some with eyes
Some men are linked together by a tear
Others by smiles
many who cannot tell
What time the angel passed who left the spell.
It comes to us among the winds that rise
Scattering their gifts on all things far and near.
The fields of unripe corn the mountain lake
And the great-hearted sea--all things do take
Their glory and their witchery from winds:
All save the few black pools the woodman finds
Far in the depths of some unsunny place
Which stand albeit the happy winds are out
In all the tossing branches round about
As silent and as fearful as a dead man's face.

Sweet are old courts with dates above the doors
And yew-trees clipped in shapes and cedar walks
And lawns whereon a quiet peacock stalks
And leaden casements and black shining floors
And arm-chairs carved like good cathedral stalls
And huge French clocks and bedsteads most inviting
And stiff old ladies hung upon the walls
Famed in the days of English memoir-writing:--
Places whose very look kind thoughts might draw
Even to Anne Stuart or William of Nassau.
Sweeter than Tudor-stricken shrines are they
With pleasant grounds and rivers lingering by--
Quaint homes that shed a pure domestic ray
Over the dull time of English history.

I have known cities with the strong-armed Rhine
Clasping their mouldered quays in lordly sweep
And lingered where the Maine's low waters shine
Through Tyrian Frankfort
and been fain to weep
Mid the green cliffs where pale Mosella laves
That Roman sepulchre imperial Trves.
Ghent boasts her steet and Bruges her moonlight square
And holy Mechlin Rome of Flanders stands
Like a queen-mother on her spacious lands
And Antwerp shoots her glowing spire in air.
Yet have I seen no place by inland brook
Hill-top or plain or trim arcaded bowers
That carries age so nobly in its look
As Oxford with the sun upon her towers.

Young men should not write sonnets if they dream
Some day to reach the bright bare seats of fame:
To such sweet thoughts and mighty feelings seem
As though like foreign things they rarely came.
Eager as men when haply they have heard
Of some new songster some gay-feathered bird
That hath over blue seas strayed in hope to find
In our thin foliage here a summer home
Fain would they catch the bright things in their mind
And cage them into sonnets as they come.
No
they should serve their wants most sparingly
Till the ripe time of song when young thoughts fail
Then their sad sonnets like old bards might be
Merry as youth and yet grey-haired and hale. 

Here in thy choice old city do I dwell
At thy dread feet most honoured Clarendon!
Catching the precious words that one by one
Fall from thy lips
because I love full well
Thy good and stately sadness: and I prize
As warnings for this land the auguries
Wherewith like fatal seeds thy pages swell.
From these hot thoughts and tears too oft I fly
To the gay Froissart and those wondrous men
Who dreamed of honour and had heart to die
For their own brave and glorious dream
and then
Albeit with boyish lingerings again
I turn to graver books where by my side
Lies Origen my dear and perilous guide.

Fairest of rocky England's channel-gates!
With what a blessed calm to the main ocean
The ebbing tide with silent under-motion
Upward is drawn along thy weedy Straits!
The glossy water shot with blue and green
Throws off the sunlight like the restless throat
Of some vain dove
and ships methinks might float
Trusting the deep in places so serene.
Thus wreathed in folds of summer billow who
Would deem old tales of wreck and tempest true
Where yon vast marvel like an albatross
Still springing upward as it seems in air
Spreads in light grandeur his huge wings across
Self-poised in momentary balance there?

He was a mild old man and cherished much
The weight dark Egypt on his spirit laid
And with a sinuous eloquence would touch
For ever at that haven of the dead.
Single romantic words by him were thrown
As types on men and places with a power
Like that of shifting sunlight after shower
Kindling the cones of hills and journeying on.
He feared the gods and heroes and spake low
That Echo might not hear in her light room:
He was a dweller underground
for gloom
Fitted old heathen goodness more than glow
And where love was not faith might gather mirth
From ore that glistened in pale beds of earth.

Nursling of heathen fear! thy woful being
Was steeped in gentleness by long disease
Though round thine awestruck mind were ever fleeing
Omens and signs and direful presages.
One might believe in frames so gently stern
Some Christian thoughts before their time did burn.
Sadness was unto thee for love
thy spirit
Rose loftily like some hard-featured stone
Which summer sunbeam never makes its throne
E'en while it fills the skirts of vapour near it.
One wert thou Nicias! of the few who urge
Their stricken souls where far-seen Death doth hover
In vision on them nor may they diverge
From the black line his chilling shadows cover.

and much study is an affliction of the flesh."
Thou mighty Heathen wert not so bereft
Of heavenly helps to thy great-hearted deeds
That thou shouldst dig for truths in broken creeds
'Mid the loose sands of four old empires left.
Motions and shadows dimly glowing fell
On thy broad soul from forms invisible.
With its plain grandeur simple calm and free
What wonder was it that thy life should merit
Sparkles of grace and angel ministry
With jealous glimpses of the world of spirit?
Greatest and best in this--that thy pure mind
Upon its saving mission all intent
Scorned the untruth of leaving books behind
To claim for thine what through thy lips was sent. 

Oft in the crowd and crossings of old Rome
The Christ-like shadow of the gifted Paul
As he looked forth betimes from his hired home
Might at this Gentile's hurrying footsteps fall
When from his mournings in the Caesar's hall
Spurred by great thoughts the troubled sage might come.
Some balmy truths most surely did he borrow
From the sweet neighbourhood of Christ to bring
The harsh hard waters of his heathen spring
In softening ducts o'er wastes of pagan sorrow.
As slips of green from fertile confines shoot
Into the tracts of sand so heathen duty
Caught from his guided pen a cold bright beauty
Where flowers might all but blossom into fruit.
If in the summer of thy bright regard
For one brief season these poor Rhymes shall live
I ask no more nor think my fate too hard
If other eyes but wintry looks should give
Nor will I grieve though what I here have writ
O'erburdened Time should drop among the ways
And to the unremembering dust commit
Beyond the praise and blame of other days:
The song doth pass but I who sing remain
I pluck from Death's own heart a life more deep
And as the Spring that dies not in her train
Doth scatter blossoms for the winds to reap
So I immortal as I fare along
Will strew my path with mortal flowers of song.

O steep and rugged Life whose harsh ascent
Slopes blindly upward through the bitter night!
They say that on thy summit high in light
Sweet rest awaits the climber travel-spent
But I alas with dusty garments rent
With fainting heart and failing limbs and sight
Can see no glimmer of the shining height
And vainly list with body forward bent
To catch athwart the gloom one wandering note
Of those glad anthems which (they say) are sung
When one emerges from the mists below:
But though O Life thy summit be remote
And all thy stony path with darkness hung
Yet ever upward through the night I go.

Each Orpheus must unto the depths descend--
For only thus the poet can be wise
Must make the sad Persephone his friend
And buried love to second life arise
Again his love must lose through too much love
Must lose his life by living life too true
For what he sought below is passed above
Already done is all that he would do
Must tune all being with his single lyre
Must melt all rocks free from their primal pain
Must search all Nature with his one soul's fire
Must bind anew all forms in heavenly chain.
If he already sees what he must do
Well may he shade his eyes from the far-shining view.

O Portugal! whene'er I see thy name
What proud emotions rise within my breast!
To thee I owe--from thee derive that fame
Which here may linger when I lie at rest.
When as a youth I landed on thy shore
How little did I think I e'er could be
Worthy the honours thou hast giv'n to me
And when the coming storm I did deplore
Drove me far from thee by its hostile threat--
With feelings which can never be effaced
I learn'd to commune with those writers old
Who had the deeds of thy great chieftains told
Departed bards in converse sweet I met
I'd seen where they had lived--the land Camoens graced.
The soote season that bud and bloom forth brings
With green hath clad the hill and eke the vale
The nightingale with feathers new she sings
The turtle to her make hath told her tale.
Summer is come for every spray now springs
The hart hath hung his old head on the pale
The buck in brake his winter coat he flings
The fishes flete with new repaired scale
The adder all her slough away she slings
The swift swallow pursueth the flyes smale
The busy bee her honey now she mings
Winter is worn that was the flowers' bale.
And thus I see among these pleasant things
Each care decays and yet my sorrow springs. 

Love that doth reign and live within my thought
And built his seat within my captive breast
Clad in arms wherein with me he fought
Oft in my face he doth his banner rest.
But she that taught me love and suffer pain
My doubtful hope and eke my hot desire
With shamefaced look to shadow and refrain
Her smiling grace converteth straight to ire.
And coward Love then to the heart apace
Taketh his flight where he doth lurk and 'plain
His purpose lost and dare not show his face.
For my lord's guilt thus faultless bide I pain
Yet from my lord shall not my foot remove--
Sweet is the death that taketh end by love. 

Set me whereas the sun doth parch the green
Or where his beams do not dissolve the ice
In temperate heat where he is felt and seen
In presence prest of people mad or wise
Set me in high or yet in low degree
In longest night or in the shortest day
In clearest sky or where clouds thickest be
In lusty youth or when my hairs are gray.
Set me in heaven in earth or else in hell
In hill or dale or in the foaming flood
Thrall or at large alive whereso I dwell
Sick or in health in evil fame or good:
Hers will I be and only with this thought
Content myself although my chance be nought. 

The day has past I never may return
Twelve circling years have run since first I came
And kindled the pure truth of friendship's flame
Alone remain these ashes in the urn
Vainly for light the taper may I turn
Thy hand is closed as for these years the same
And for the substance nought is but the name
No more hope no more a ray to burn.
But once more in the pauses of thy joy
Remember him who sought thee in his youth
And with the old reliance of the boy
Asked for thy treasures in the guise of truth.
The air is thick with sighsthe shaded sun
Shows on the hillside that the day is done.


Hearts of eternity hearts of the deep!
Proclaim from land to sea your mighty fate
How that for you no living comes too late
How ye cannot in Theban labyrinth creep
How ye great harvests from small surface reap.
Shout excellent band in grand primeval strain
Like midnight winds that foam along the main
And do all things rather than pause to weep!
A human heart knows nought of littleness
Suspects no man compares with no one's ways
Hath in one hour most glorious length of days
A recompense a joy a loveliness
Like eaglet keen shoots into azure far
And always dwelling nigh is the remotest star.
In a cot-studded fruity green deep dale
There grows the ruin of an abbey old
And on the hillside cut in rock behold
A sainted hermit's cell
so goes the tale.
What of that ruin? There is nothing left
Save one sky-framing window arch which climbs
Up to its top point single-stoned bereft
Of prop or load. And this strange thing sublimes
The scene. For the fair great house vowed to God
Is hurled down and unhallowed
and we tread
Over buried graves which have devoured their dead
While over all springs up the green-lifed sod
And arch so light and ]ofty in its span--
So frail and yet so lasting--'tis like man.
In Life's dim mists of morning thou dost seem
To Childhood's eyes a giant vague and vast
A shade across the dewy meadow cast
A blot upon the level-darting beam.
Day comes apace and like a fearful dream
Thou shrinkest
and Youth smiles deeming thee past
And Manhood recks not of thee
till at last
Thou comest again a speck borne down the stream.
Larger thou growest and we see thee now
No foe but one whose silent plying wing
Shall bear us from the swiftly fading shore
Thou comest
our head upon our breast we bow
And in our ears remembered voices ring
Thy arms enfold us
and we know no more. 

The mystic berry from the Druid's tree
Or limpet from the rock more easily
Or ivy from its mated wall shall part
Than man from whom he loves than heart from heart.
Oh the wild ecstasy! the wildering pain!
To bid adieu
and know that ne'er again
The hand you hold the loving voice you hear
Shall grasp your own on earth or charm your ear:
The lingering clasp of the last fond embrace
The lingering gaze on the fast fading face
The faltering tongue
the frozen memory
The stunning sense of lonely misery
--
Ah who shall ever find the words to tell
The agony of those that take a last farewell?

Let be
of mercy! love let go the clasp
Which yet has held thy beauty bound by me--
A graceful bark beside a sombre quay--
Already now the waters sob and gasp
To dash and crush thee on me and to grasp
My tender treasure which by night and day
Seen or unseen against me throbbing lay:
Near me thou diest: love let go thy clasp.
Spread thy white-bosomed sail unto the breeze
And I like one who waving farewells stands
And stretches arms whither arms cannot reach
Must yearn to watch thee far upon the seas
At ebb across the weary level sands
At flood across the weary moaning beach. 

One moment Night fold up thy wings again
And cast upon mine eyes the shadow of sleep
And in thy breath once more my senses steep
And draw once more thy clouds about my brain
Whereon who looketh may forget his pain:
For floating there even now my Mistress bent
Her lips towards me as on speech intent
For which my whole soul gasped as flowers for rain.
Then at the rustle of thy wings she fled
Frighted
and though with hope to stay her flight
I thrice called out she vanished out of sight:
Bid her return that so her speech be said.
(The day is up a voice is in the trees
And I am I and she is over seas.) 

Sweet singer who among thy poet's bays
Some bitter-fragrant herb has intertwined
Who round about thy throbbing lyre dost bind
Some scent which stealing with thy happiest lays
Down to the heart's deep-secret core doth raise
A subtle ache their sweetness cannot still
A yearning that they cannot all fulfil
That lives and sleeps and lives through many days.
Though restless youth and age unrested bring
Their discontents though many things seem to lie
Yet God be praised we cannot wholly die
Whilst such as thou such as thy father sing
And point us still to such landmarks as these


The fierce sun smote him and went glorying down
And ere the gloaming died his spirit fled
The southern night burst into stars o'erhead
Nor ruffled any wavelet to a frown
Till morning from beneath her golden crown
Smiled on the half-mast ensign fluttering death
To beating pulses and to bated breath
As if her smile could smile men's sorrow down.
Slow tolls the bell the slow procession creeps
Kind women's eyes are wet hard men's are grave
A voice commits our brother to the deeps
A plash divides the hollow gulfing wave
Still plies the van still on the vessel speeds
Nor ship nor sea nor sun our sorrow heeds.
What most men hunger for yet none achieves
Save him who greatly cares not to be great
Who knows the loom of time spins not more state
Than that small filament a spider weaves:
Since single barley-straws make piled-up sheaves
And atoms diminute the gross earth's weight
Nor comes from Sirius earthward rarer freight
Than this small taper-beam my page receives.
No greater is the desert than one sand
The mountain than one dust-speck at its base
The ocean than one rain-drop on my hand
And Shakespeare's self there in the foremost place
Hath but in ampler measure at command
That thought which shines from rustic Hodge's face.
A high bare field brown from the plough and borne
Aslant from sunset
amber wastes of sky
Washing the ridge
a clamour of crows that fly
In from the wide flats where the spent tides mourn
To yon their rocking roosts in pines wind-torn
A line of gray snake-fence that zigzags by
A pond and cattle
from the homestead nigh
The long deep summonings of the supper horn.
Black on the ridge against that lonely flush
A cart and stoop-necked oxen
ranged beside
Some barrels
and the day-worn harvest folk
Here emptying their baskets jar the hush
With hollow thunders
down the dusk hillside
Lumbers the wain
and day fades out like smoke.

A brown sad-coloured hillside where the soil
Fresh from the frequent harrow deep and fine
Lies bare
no break in the remote sky-line
Save where a flock of pigeons streams aloft
Startled from feed in some low-lying croft
Or far-off spires with yellow of sunset shine
And here the Sower unwittingly divine
Exerts the silent forethought of his toil.
Alone he treads the glebe his measured stride
Dumb in the yielding soil
and tho' small joy
Dwell in his heavy face as spreads the blind
Pale grain from his dispensing palm aside
This plodding churl grows great in his employ
--
Godlike he makes provision for mankind. 

Through the still dusk how sighs the ebb-tide out
Reluctant for the reed-beds! Down the sands
It washes. Hark! Beyond the wan gray strand's
Low limits how the winding channels grieve
Aware the evasive waters soon will leave
Them void amid the waste of desolate lands
Where shadowless to the sky the marsh expands
And the noon-heats must scar them and the drought.
Yet soon for them the solacing tide returns
To quench their thirst of longing. Ah not so
Works the stern law our tides of life obey!
Ebbing in the night-watches swift away
Scarce known ere fled for ever is the flow
And in parched channel still the shrunk stream mourns. 

On other fields and other scenes the morn
Laughs from her blue--but not such scenes as these
Where comes no cheer of summer leaves and bees
And no shade mitigates the day's white scorn.
These serious acres vast no groves adorn
But giant trunks bleak shapes that once were trees
Tow'r naked unassuaged of rain or breeze
Their stern grey isolation grimly borne.
The months roll over them and mark no change
But when spring stirs or autumn stills the year
Perchance some phantom leafage rustles faint
Through their parched dreams--some old-time notes ring strange
When in his slender treble far and clear
Reiterates the rain-bird his complaint. 

In my first years and prime yet not at height
When sweet conceits my wits did entertain
Ere beauty's force I knew or false delight
Or to what oar she did her captives chain
Led by a sacred troop of Phoebus' train
I first began to read then lov'd to write
And so to praise a perfect red and white
But God wot wist not what was in my brain:
Love smil'd to see in what an awful guise
I turn'd those antiques of the age of gold
And that I might more mysteries behold
He set so fair a volume to mine eyes
That I (quires clos'd which dead dead sighs but breathe)
Joy on this living book to read my death.

I know that all beneath the moon decays
And what by mortals in this world is brought
In Time's great periods shall return to nought
That fairest states have fatal nights and days
I know how all the Muse's heavenly lays
With toil of spright which are so dearly bought
As idle sounds of few or none are sought
And that nought lighter is than airy praise
I know frail beauty like the purple flower
To which one morn oft birth and death affords
That love a jarring is of minds' accords
Where sense and will invassal reason's power:
Know what I list this all can not me move
But that O me! I both must write and love.

Ye who so curiously do paint your thoughts
Enlight'ning ev'ry line in such a guise
That they seem rather to have fall'n from skies
Than of a human hand be mortal draughts
In one part Sorrow so tormented lies
As if his life at ev'ry sigh would part
Love here blindfolded stands with bow and dart
There Hope looks pale Despair with rainy eyes:
Of my rude pencil look not for such art
My wit I find now lessened to devise
So high conceptions to express my smart
And some think love but feign'd if too too wise.
These troubled words and lines confus'd you find
Are like unto their model my sick mind.

Fair is my yoke though grievous be my pains
Sweet are my wounds although they deeply smart
My bit is gold though shortened be the reins
My bondage brave though I may not depart:
Although I burn the fire which doth impart
Those flames so sweet reviving force contains
That like Arabia's bird my wasted heart
Made quick by death more lively still remains.
I joy though oft my waking eyes spend tears
I never want delight even when I groan
Best companied when most I am alone
A heaven of hopes I have midst hells of fears.
Thus every way contentment strange I find
But most in her rare beauty my rare mind.

How that vast heaven intitled First is roll'd
If any other worlds beyond it lie
And people living in eternity
Or essence pure that doth this All uphold
What motion have those fixed sparks of gold
The wand'ring carbuncles which shine from high
By sprights or bodies contrare-ways in sky
If they be turn'd and mortal things behold
How sun posts heaven about how night's pale queen
With borrowed beams looks on this hanging round
What cause fair Iris hath and monsters seen
In air's large fields of light and seas profound
Did hold my wand'ring thoughts when thy sweet eye
Bade me leave all and only think on thee.

Vaunt not fair heavens of your two glorious lights
Which though most bright yet see not when they shine
And shining cannot show their beams divine
Both in one place but part by days and nights
Earth vaunt not of those treasures ye enshrine
Held only dear because hid from our sights
Your pure and burnish'd gold your diamonds fine
Snow-passing ivory that the eye delights
Nor seas of those dear wares are in you found
Vaunt not rich pearl red coral which do stir
A fond desire in fools to plunge your ground
Those all more fair are to be had in her
Pearl ivory coral diamond suns gold
Teeth neck lips heart eyes hair are to behold.

That learned Grecian who did so excel
In knowledge passing sense that he is nam'd
Of all the after-worlds divine doth tell
That at the time when first our souls are fram'd
Ere in these mansions blind they come to dwell
They live bright rays of that eternal light
And others see know love in heaven's great height
Not toil'd with aught to reason doth rebel.
Most true it is for straight at the first sight
My mind me told that in some other place
It elsewhere saw the idea of that face
And lov'd a love of heavenly pure delight
No wonder now I feel so fair a flame
Sith I her lov'd ere on this earth she came.

Now while the night her sable veil hath spread
And silently her resty coach doth roll
Rousing with her from Tethys' azure bed
Those starry nymphs which dance about the pole
While Cynthia in purest cypress clad
The Latmian shepherd in a trance descries
And whiles looks pale from height of all the skies
Whiles dyes her beauties in a bashful red
While sleep in triumph closed hath all eyes
And birds and beasts a silence sweet do keep
And Proteus' monstrous people in the deep
The winds and waves husht up to rest entice
I wake muse weep and who my heart hath slain
See still before me to augment my pain.

Sleep Silence' child sweet father of soft rest
Prince whose approach peace to all mortals brings
Indifferent host to shepherds and to kings
Sole comforter of minds with grief opprest
Lo by thy charming rod all breathing things
Lie slumb'ring with forgetfulness possest
And yet o'er me to spread thy drowsy wings
Thou spares alas! who cannot be thy guest.
Since I am thine O come but with that face
To inward light which thou art wont to show
With feigned solace ease a true-felt woe
Or if deaf god thou do deny that grace
Come as thou wilt and what thou wilt bequeath
I long to kiss the image of my death.

Fair Moon who with thy cold and silver shine
Makes sweet the horror of the dreadful night
Delighting the weak eye with smiles divine
Which Phoebus dazzles with his too much light
Bright Queen of the first Heaven if in thy shrine
By turning oft and Heaven's eternal might
Thou hast not yet that once sweet fire of thine
Endymion forgot and lover's plight
If cause like thine may pity breed in thee
And pity somewhat else to it obtain
Since thou hast power of dreams as well as he
Who paints strange figures in the slumb'ring brain
Now while she sleeps in doleful guise her show
These tears and the black map of all my woe.

Lamp of heaven's crystal hall that brings the hours
Eye-dazzler who makes the ugly night
At thine approach fly to her slumb'ry bow'rs
And fills the world with wonder and delight
Life of all lives death-giver by thy flight
To southern pole from these six signs of ours
Goldsmith of all the stars with silver bright
Who moon enamels Apelles of the flow'rs
Ah! from those watery plains thy golden head
Raise up and bring the so long lingering morn
A grave nay hell I find become this bed
This bed so grievously where I am torn
But woe is me! though thou now brought the day
Day shall but serve more sorrow to display.

Ah! burning thoughts now let me take some rest
And your tumultuous broils a while appease
Is 't not enough stars fortune love molest
Me all at once but ye must too displease?
Let hope though false yet lodge within my breast
My high attempt though dangerous yet praise.
What though I trace not right heaven's steepy ways?
It doth suffice my fall shall make me blest.
I do not doat on days nor fear not death
So that my life be brave what though not long?
Let me renown'd live from the vulgar throng
And when ye list heavens! take this borrowed breath.
Men but like visions are time all doth claim
He lives who dies to win a lasting name.

O sacred blush impurpling cheeks' pure skies
With crimson wings which spread thee like the morn
O bashful look sent from those shining eyes
Which though cast down on earth couldst heaven adorn
O tongue in which most luscious nectar lies
That can at once both bless and make forlorn
Dear coral lip which beauty beautifies
That trembling stood ere that her words were born
And you her words words no but golden chains
Which did captive mine ears ensnare my soul
Wise image of her mind mind that contains
A power all power of senses to control
Ye all from love dissuade so sweetly me
That I love more if more my love could be.

Nor Arne nor Mincius nor stately Tiber
Sebethus nor the flood into whose streams
He fell who burnt the world with borrow'd beams
Gold-rolling Tagus Munda famous Iber
Sorgue Rhone Loire Garron nor proud-banked Seine
Peneus Phasis Xanthus humble Ladon
Nor she whose nymphs excel her who lov'd Adon
Fair Tamesis nor Ister large nor Rhine
Euphrates Tigris Indus Hermus Gange
Pearly Hydaspes serpent-like Meander
The gulf bereft sweet Hero her Leander
Nile that far his hidden head doth range
Have ever had so rare a cause of praise
As Ora where this northern Phoenix stays.

To hear my plaints fair river crystalline
Thou in a silent slumber seems to stay
Delicious flow'rs lily and columbine
Ye bow your heads when I my woes display
Forests in you the myrtle palm and bay
Have had compassion list'ning to my groans
The winds with sighs have solemniz'd my moans
'Mong leaves which whispered what they could not say
The caves the rocks the hills the Sylvans' thrones
(As if even pity did in them appear)
Have at my sorrows rent their ruthless stones
Each thing I find hath sense except my dear
Who doth not think I love or will not know
My grief perchance delighting in my woe.

Sweet brook in whose clear crystal I mine eyes
Have oft seen great in labour of their tears
Enamell'd bank whose shining gravel bears
These sad characters of my miseries
High woods whose mounting tops menace the spheres
Wild citizens Amphions of the trees
You gloomy groves at hottest noons which freeze
Elysian shades which Phoebus never clears
Vast solitary mountains pleasant plains
Embroid'red meads that ocean-ways you reach
Hills dales springs all that my sad cry constrains
To take part of my plaints and learn woe's speech
Will that remorseless fair e'er pity show?
Of grace now answer if ye ought know. No.

With flaming horns the Bull now brings the year
Melt do the horrid mountains' helms of snow
The silver floods in pearly channels flow
The late-bare woods green anadems do wear
The nightingale forgetting winter's woe
Calls up the lazy morn her notes to hear
Those flow'rs are spread which names of princes bear
Some red some azure white and golden grow
Here lows a heifer there bea-wailing strays
A harmless lamb not far a stag rebounds
The shepherds sing to grazing flocks sweet lays
And all about the echoing air resounds.
Hills dales woods floods and everything doth change
But she in rigour I in love am strange.

When Nature now had wonderfully wrought
All Auristella's parts except her eyes
To make those twins two lamps in beauty's skies
She counsel of her starry senate sought.
Mars and Apollo first did her advise
In colour black to wrap those comets bright
That Love him so might soberly disguise
And unperceived wound at every sight.
Chaste Phoebe spake for purest azure dyes
But Jove and Venus green about the light
To frame thought best as brigging most delight
That to pin'd hearts. hope might for aye arise:
Nature all said a paradise of green
There plac'd to make all love which have them seen.

In vain I haunt the cold and silver springs
To quench the fever burning in my veins
In vain love's pilgrim mountains dales and plains
I overrun
vain help long absence brings:
In vain my friends your counsel me constrains
To fly and place my thoughts on other things.
Ah! like the bird that fired hath her wings
The more I move the greater are my pains.
Desire alas! Desire a Zeuxis new
From Indies borrowing gold from western skies
Most bright cynoper sets before mine eyes
In every place her hair sweet look and hue:
That fly run rest I all doth prove but vain
My life lies in those looks which have me slain.

All other beauties howsoe'er they shine
In hairs more bright than is the golden ore
Or cheeks more fair than fairest eglantine
Or hands like hers who comes the sun before
Match'd with that heavenly hue and shape divine
With those dear stars which my weak thoughts adore
Look but like shadows or if they be more
It is in that that they are like to thine.
Who sees those eyes their force and doth not prove
Who gazeth on the dimple of that chin
And finds not Venus' son intrench'd therein
Or hath not sense or knows not what is love.
To see thee had Narcissus had the grace
He sure had died with wond'ring on thy face.

My tears may well Numidian lions tame
And pity breed into the hardest heart
That ever Pyrrha did to maid impart
When she them first of blushing rocks did frame.
Ah! eyes which only serve to wail my smart
How long will you mine inward woes proclaim?
Let it suffice you bear a weeping part
All night at day though ye do not the same:
Cease idle sighs to spend your storms in vain
And these calm secret shades more to molest
Contain you in the prison of my breast
You do not ease but aggravate my pain
Or if burst forth you must that tempest move
In sight of her whom I so dearly love.

Nymphs sister nymphs which haunt this crystal brook
And happy in these floating bowers abide
Where trembling roofs of trees from sun you hide
Which make ideal woods in every crook
Whether ye garlands for your locks provide
Or pearly letters seek in sandy hook
Or count your loves when Thetis was a bride
Lift up your golden heads and on me look.
Read in mine eyes mine agonising cares
And what ye read recount to her again:
Fair nymphs say all these streams are but my tears
And if she ask you how they sweet remain
Tell that the bitterest tears which eyes can pour
When shed for her do cease more to be sour.

Then is she gone? O fool and coward I!
O good occasion lost ne'er to be found!
What fatal chains have my dull senses bound
When best they may that they not fortune try?
Here is the flow'ry bed where she did lie
With roses here she stellified the ground
She fix'd her eyes on this yet smiling pond
Nor time nor courteous place seem'd ought deny.
Too long too long Respect I do embrace
Your counsel full of threats and sharp disdain
Disdain in her sweet heart can have no place
And though come there must straight retire again
Henceforth Respect farewell I oft hear told
Who lives in love can never be too bold.

In mind's pure glass when I myself behold
And vively see how my best days are spent
What clouds of care above my head are rolled
What coming harms which I can not prevent:
My begun course I wearied do repent
And would embrace what reason oft hath told
But scarce thus think I when love hath controlled
All the best reasons reason could invent.
Though sure I know my labour's end is grief
The more I strive that I the more shall pine
That only death can be my last relief:
Yet when I think upon that face divine
Like one with arrow shot in laughter's place
Malgr my heart I joy in my disgrace.

Dear quirister who from those shadows sends
Ere that the blushing dawn dare show her light
Such sad lamenting strains that night attends
(Become all ear) stars stay to hear thy plight
If one whose grief even reach of thought transcends
Who ne'er (not in a dream) did taste delight
May thee importune who like case pretends
And seems to joy in woe in woe's despite
Tell me (so may thou fortune milder try
And long long sing) for what thou thus complains
Sith winter gone the sun in dappled sky
Now smiles on meadows mountains woods and plains?
The bird as if my questions did her move
With trembling wings sobb'd forth I love I love!

Trust not sweet soul those curled waves of gold
With gentle tides which on your temples flow
Nor temples spread with flakes of virgin snow
Nor snow of cheeks with Tyrian grain enroll'd
Trust not those shining lights which wrought my woe
When first I did their burning rays behold
Nor voice whose sounds more strange effects do show
Than of the Thracian harper have been told.
Look to this dying lily fading rose
Dark hyacinth of late whose blushing beams
Made all the neighbouring herbs and grass rejoice
And think how little is 'twixt life's extremes:
The cruel tyrant that did kill those flow'rs
Shall once ay me! not spare that spring of yours.

That I so slenderly set forth my mind
Writing I wot not what in ragged rhymes
And charg'd with brass into these golden times
When others tower so high am left behind
I crave not Phoebus leave his sacred cell
To bind my brows with fresh Aonian bays
Let them have that who tuning sweetest lays
By Tempe sit or Aganippe's well
Nor yet to Venus' tree do I aspire
Sith she for whom I might affect that praise
My best attempts with cruel words gainsays
And I seek not that others me admire.
Of weeping myrrh the crown is which I crave
With a sad cypress to adorn my grave.

Sound hoarse sad lute true witness of my woe
And strive no more to ease self-chosen pain
With soul-enchanting sounds
your accents strain
Unto these tears incessantly which flow.
Shrill treble weep
and you dull basses show
Your master's sorrow in a deadly vein
Let never joyful hand upon you go
Nor consort keep but when you do complain.
Fly Phoebus' rays nay hate the irksome light
Woods' solitary shades for thee are best
Or the black horrors of the blackest night
When all the world save thou and I doth rest:
Then sound sad lute and bear a mourning part
Thou hell mayst move though not a woman's heart.

You restless seas appease your roaring waves
And you who raise huge mountains in that plain
Air's trumpeters your blust'ring storms restrain
And listen to the plaints my grief doth cause.
Eternal lights though adamantine laws
Of destinies to move still you ordain
Turn hitherward your eyes your axe-tree pause
And wonder at the torments I sustain.
Earth if thou be not dull'd by my disgrace
And senseless made now ask those powers above
Why they so crost a wretch brought on thy face
Fram'd for mishap th' anachorite of love?
And bid them if they would more tnas burn
In Rhodope or Erymanthe me turn. 

What cruel star into this world me brought?
What gloomy day did dawn to give me light?
What unkind hand to nurse me orphan sought
And would not leave me in eternal night?
What thing so dear as I hath essence bought?
The elements dry humid heavy light
The smallest living things by nature wrought
Be freed of woe if they have small delight.
Ah! only I abandon'd to despair
Nail'd to my torments in pale Horror's shade
Like wand'ring clouds see all my comforts fled
And evil on evil with hours my life impair:
The heaven and fortune which were wont to turn
Fixt in one mansion stay to cause me mourn.

Dear eye which deign'st on this sad monument
The sable scroll of my mishaps to view
Though with the mourning Muses' tears besprent
And darkly drawn which is not feign'd but true
If thou not dazzled with a heavenly hue
And comely feature didst not yet lament.
But happy liv'st unto thyself content
O let not Love thee to his laws subdue.
Look on the woful shipwreck of my youth
And let my ruins for a Phare thee serve
To shun this rock Capharean of untruth
And serve no god who doth his churchmen starve:
His kingdom is but plaints his guerdon tears
What he gives more are jealousies and fears. 

If crost with all mishaps be my poor life
If one short day I never spent in mirth
If my spright with itself holds lasting strife
If sorrow's death is but new sorrow's birth
If this vain world be but a sable stage
Where slave-born man plays to the scoffing stars
If youth be toss'd with love with weakness age
If knowledge serve to hold our thoughts in wars
If time can close the hundred mouths of fame
And make what long since past like that to be
If virtue only be an idle name
If I when I was born was born to die
Why seek I to prolong these loathsome days?
The fairest rose in shortest time decays. 

Let fortune triumph now and I sing
Sith I must fall beneath this load of care
Let her what most I prize of ev'ry thing
Now wicked trophies in her temple rear.
She who high palmy empires doth not spare
And tramples in the dust the proudest king
Let her vaunt how my bliss she did impair
To what low ebb she now my flow doth bring
Let her count how a new Ixion me
She in her wheel did turn how high nor low
I never stood but more to tortur'd be:
Weep soul weep plaintful soul thy sorrows know
Weep of thy tears till a black river swell
Which may Cocytus be to this thy hell. 

O cruel beauty meekness inhumane
That night and day contend with my desire
And seek my hope to kill not quench my fire
By death not balm to ease my pleasant pain
Though ye my thoughts tread down which would aspire
And bound my bliss do not alas! disdain
That I your matchless worth and grace admire
And for their cause these torments sharp sustain.
Let great Empedocles vaunt of his death
Found in the midst of those Sicilian flames
And Phathon that heaven him reft of breath
And Ddal's son he nam'd the Samian streams:
Their haps I envy not
my praise shall be
The fairest she that liv'd gave death to me.

The Hyperborean hills Ceraunus' snow
Or Arimaspus (cruel!) first thee bred
The Caspian tigers with their milk thee fed
And Fauns did human blood on thee bestow
Fierce Orithyia's lover in thy bed
Thee lull'd asleep where he enrag'd doth blow
Thou didst not drink the floods which here do flow
But tears or those by icy Tanais' head.
Sith thou disdains my love neglects my grief
Laughs at my groans and still affects my death
Of thee nor heaven I'll seek no more relief
Nor longer entertain this loathsome breath
But yield unto my star that thou mayst prove
What loss thou hadst in losing such a love.

Who hath not seen into her saffron bed
The morning's goddess mildly her repose
Or her of whose pure blood first sprang the rose
Lull'd in a slumber by a myrtle shade
Who hath not seen that sleeping white and red
Makes Phoebe look so pale which she did close
In that Ionian hill to ease her woes
Which only lives by nectar kisses fed
Come but and see my lady sweetly sleep
The sighing rubies of those heavenly lips
The Cupids which breast's golden apples keep
Those eyes which shine in midst of their eclipse
And he them all shall see perhaps and prove
She waking but persuades now forceth love. 

Of Cytherea's birds that milk-white pair
On yonder leafy myrtle-tree which groan
And waken with their kisses in the air
Enamour'd zephyrs murmuring one by one
If thou but sense hadst like Pygmalion's stone
Or hadst not seen Medusa's snaky hair
Love's lessons thou might'st learn
and learn sweet fair
To summer's heat ere that thy spring be grown.
And if those kissing lovers seem but cold
Look how that elm this ivy doth embrace
And binds and clasps with many a wanton fold
And courting sleep o'ershadows all the place
Nay seems to say dear tree we shall not part
In sign whereof lo! in each leaf a heart. 

The sun is fair when he with crimson crown
And flaming rubies leaves his eastern bed
Fair is Thaumantias in her crystal gown
When clouds engemm'd hang azure green and red:
To western worlds when wearied day goes down
And from Heaven's windows each star shows her head
Earth's silent daughter night is fair though brown
Fair is the moon though in love's livery clad
Fair Chloris is when she doth paint April
Fair are the meads the woods the floods are fair
Fair looketh Ceres with her yellow hair
And apples' queen when rose-cheek'd she doth smile.
That heaven and earth and seas are fair is true
Yet true that all not please so much as you.

Slide soft fair Forth and make a crystal plain
Cut your white locks and on your foamy face
Let not a wrinkle be when you embrace
The boat that earth's perfections doth contain.
Winds wonder and through wond'ring hold your peace
Or if that ye your hearts cannot restrain
From sending sighs mov'd by a lover's case
Sigh and in her fair hair yourselves enchain
Or take these sighs which absence makes arise
From mine oppressed breast and wave the sails
Or some sweet breath new brought from Paradise
Floods seem to smile love o'er the winds prevails
And yet huge waves arise
the cause is this
The ocean strives with Forth the boat to kiss.

Ah! who can see those fruits of Paradise
Celestial cherries which so sweetly swell
That sweetness' self confined there seems to dwell
And all those sweetest parts about despise?
Ah! who can see and feel no flame surprise
His hardened heart? for me alas! too well
I know their force and how they do excel:
Now burn I through desire now do I freeze
I die dear life unless to me be given
As many kisses as the spring hath flow'rs
Or as the silver drops of Iris' show'rs
Or as the stars in all-embracing heaven
And if displeas'd ye of the match complain
Ye shall have leave to take them back again.

Is't not enough ay me! me thus to see
Like some heaven-banish'd ghost still wailing go
A shadow which your rays do only show?
To vex me more unless ye bid me die
What could ye worse allot unto your foe?
But die will I so ye will not deny
That grace to me which mortal foes even try
To choose what sort of death should end my woe.
One time I found whenas ye did me kiss
Ye gave my panting soul so sweet a touch
That half I swoon'd in midst of all my bliss
I do but crave my death's wound may be such
For though by grief I die not and annoy
Is't not enough to die through too much joy?

She whose fair flow'rs no autumn makes decay
Whose hue ce]estial earthly hues doth stain
Into a pleasant odoriferous plain
Did walk alone to brave the pride of May
And whilst through checker'd lists she made her way
Which smil'd about her sight to entertain
Lo unawares where Love did bid remain
She spied and sought to make of him her prey
For which of golden locks a fairest hair
To bind the boy she took
but he afraid
At her approach sprang swiftly in the air
And mounting far from reach look'd back and said
Why shouldst thou sweet me seek in chains to bind
Sith in thine eyes I daily am confined? 

Dear wood and you sweet solitary place
Where from the vulgar I estranged live
Contented more with what your shades me give
Than if I had what Thetis doth embrace
What snaky eye grown jealous of my peace
Now from your silent horrors would me drive
When sun progressing in his glorious race
Beyond the Twins doth near our pole arrive?
What sweet delight a quiet life affords
And what it is to be of bondage free
Far from the madding worldling's hoarse discords
Sweet flow'ry place I first did learn of thee:
Ah I if I were mine own your dear resorts
I would not change with princes' stately courts.

Thou window once which served for a sphere
To that dear planet of my heart whose light
Made often blush the glorious queen of night
While she in thee more beauteous did appear
What mourning weeds alas! now dost thou wear!
How loathsome to mine eyes is thy sad sight
How poorly look'st thou with what heavy cheer
Since that sun set which made thee shine so bright
Unhappy now thee close for as of late
To wond'ring eyes thou wast a paradise
Bereft of her who made thee fortunate
A gulf thou art whence clouds of sighs arise
But unto none so noisome as to me
Who hourly see my murder'd joys in thee.

Are these the flow'ry banks is this the mead
Where she was wont to pass the pleasant hours?
Did here her eyes exhale mine eyes' salt show'rs
When on her lap I laid my weary head?
Is this the goodly elm did us o'erspread
Whose tender rind cut out in curious flow'rs
By that white hand contains those flames of ours?
Is this the rustling spring us music made?
Deflourish'd mead where is your heavenly hue?
Bank where that arras did you late adorn?
How look ye elm all withered and forlorn?
Only sweet spring nought altered seems in you
But while here chang'd each other thing appears
To sour your streams take of mine eyes these tears.

Alexis here she stay'd
among these pines
Sweet hermitress she did alone repair
Here did she spread the treasure of her hair
More rich than that brought from the Colchian mines.
She set her by these musked eglantines
The happy place the print seems yet to bear
Her voice did sweeten here thy sugar'd lines
To which winds trees beasts birds did lend their ear.
Me here she first perceiv'd and here a morn
Of bright carnations did o'erspread her face
Here did she sigh here first my hopes were born
And I first got a pledge of promis'd grace:
But ah! what serv'd it to be happy so
Sith passed pleasures double but new woe?

O night clear night O dark and gloomy day!
O woful waking! O soul-pleasing sleep!
O sweet conceits which in my brains did creep
Yet sour conceits which went so soon away!
A sleep I had more than poor words can say
For clos'd in arms methought I did thee keep
A sorry wretch plung'd in misfortunes deep
Am I not wak'd when light doth lies bewray?
O that that night had ever still been black!
O that that day had never yet begun!
And you mine eyes would ye no time saw sun
To have your sun in such a zodiac!
Lo! what is good of life is but a dream
When sorrow is a never-ebbing stream.

Hair precious hair which Midas' hand did strain
Part of the wreath of gold that crowns those brows
Which winter's whitest white in whiteness stain
And lily by Eridan's bank that grows
Hair fatal present which first caus'd my woes
When loose ye hang like Danae's golden rain
Sweet nets which sweetly do all hearts enchain
Strings deadly strings with which Love bends his bows
How are ye hither come? tell me O hair
Dear armelet for what thus were ye given?
I know a badge of bondage I you wear
Yet hair for you O that I were a heaven!
Like Berenice's lock that ye might shine
But brighter far about this arm of mine.

With grief in heart and tears in swooning eyes
When I to her had giv'n a sad farewell
Close sealed with a kiss and dew which fell
On my else-moisten'd face from beauty's skies
So strange amazement did my mind surprise
That at each pace I fainting turn'd again
Like one whom a torpedo stupefies
Not feeling honour's bit nor reason's rein.
But when fierce stars to part me did constrain
With back-cast looks I envied both and bless'd
The happy walls and place did her contain
Till that sight's shafts their flying object miss'd.
So wailing parted Ganymede the fair
When eagles' talons bare him through the air.

How many times night's silent queen her face
Hath hid how oft with stars in silver mask
In Heaven's great hall she hath begun her task
And cheer'd the waking eye in lower place!
How oft the sun hath made by Heaven's swift race
The happy lover to forsake the breast
Of his dear lady wishing in the west
His golden coach to run had larger space!
I ever count and number since alas!
I bade farewell to my heart's dearest guest
The miles I compass and in mind I chase
The floods and mountains hold me from my rest:
But woe is me! long count and count may I
Ere I see her whose absence makes me die.

So grievous is my pain so painful life
That oft I find me in the arms of Death
But breath half-gone that tyrant called Death
Who others kills restoreth me to life:
For while I think how woe shall end with life
And that I quiet peace shall joy by death
That thought even doth o'erpower the pains of death
And call me home again to loathed life.
Thus doth mine evil transcend both life and death
While no death is so bad as is my life
Nor no life such which doth not end by death
And Protean changes turn my death and life.
O happy those who in their birth find death
Sith but to languish Heaven affordeth life!

Fame who with golden pens abroad dost range
Where Phoebus leaves the night and brings the day
Fame in one place who restless dost not stay
Till thou hast flown from Atlas unto Gange
Fame enemy to time that still doth change
And in his changing course would make decay
What here below he findeth in his way
Even making virtue to herself look strange
Daughter of heaven now all thy trumpets sound
Raise up thy head unto the highest sky
With wonder blaze the gifts in her are found
And when she from this mortal globe shall fly
In thy wide mouth keep long long keep her name
So thou by her she by thee live shall Fame.

I curse the night yet do from day me hide
The Pandionian birds I tire with moans
The echoes even are wearied with my groans
Since absence did me from my bliss divide.
Each dream each toy my reason doth affright
And when remembrance reads the curious scroll
Of pass'd contentments caused by her sight
Then bitter anguish doth invade my soul.
While thus I live eclipsed of her light
O me! what better am I than the mole
Or those whose zenith is the only pole
Whose hemisphere is hid with so long night?
Save that in earth he rests they hope for sun
I pine and find mine endless night begun.

Of death some tell some of the cruel pain
Which that bad craftsman in his work did try
When (a new monster) flames once did constrain
A human corpse to yield a brutish cry.
Some tell of those in burning beds who lie
For that they durst in the Phlegrn plain
The mighty rulers of the sky defy
And siege those crystal towers which all contain.
Another counts of Phlegethon's hot floods
The souls which drink Ixion's endless smart
And his to whom a vulture eats the heart
One tells of spectres in enchanted woods.
Of all those pains he who the worst would prove
Let him be absent and but pine in love.

Place me where angry Titan burns the Moor
And thirsty Afric fiery monsters brings
Or where the new-born phoenix spreads her wings
And troops of wond'ring birds her flight adore
Place me by Gange or Ind's empamper'd shore
Where smiling heavens on earth cause double springs
Place me where Neptune's quire of syrens sings
Or where made hoarse through cold he leaves to roar
Me place where Fortune doth her darlings crown
A wonder or a spark in Envy's eye
Or let outrageous fates upon me frown
And pity wailing see disaster'd me
Affection's print my mind so deep doth prove
I may forget myself but not my love.

Of mortal glory O soon darken'd ray!
O posting joys of man more swift than wind!
O fond desires which wing'd with fancies stray!
O trait'rous hopes which do our judgments blind!
Lo! in a flash that light is gone away
Which dazzle did each eye delight each mind
And with that sun from whence it came combin'd
Now makes more radiant heaven's eternal day.
Let Beauty now bedew her cheeks with tears
Let widow'd Music only roar and plain
Poor Virtue get thee wings and mount the spheres
And let thine only name on earth remain.
Death hath thy temple raz'd Love's empire foil'd
The world of honour worth and sweetness spoil'd.

Those eyes those sparkling sapphires of delight
Which thousand thousand hearts did set on fire
Which made that eye of heaven that brings the light
Oft jealous stay amaz'd them to admire
That living snow those crimson roses bright
Those pearls those rubies which did breed desire
Those locks of gold that purple fair of Tyre
Are wrapt ay me! up in eternal night.
What hast thou more to vaunt of wretched world
Sith she who cursed thee made blest is gone?
Thine ever-burning lamps rounds ever whirl'd
Can unto thee not model such a one:
For if they would such beauty bring on earth
They should be forc'd again to make her breath.

O fate! conspir'd to pour your worst on me
O rigorous rigour which doth all confound!
With cruel hands ye have cut down the tree
And fruit and flower dispersed on the ground.
A little space of earth my love doth bound
That beauty which did raise it to the sky
Turn'd in neglected dust now low doth lie
Deaf to my plaints and senseless of my wound.
Ah! did I live for this? Ah! did I love?
For this and was it she did so excel?
That ere she well life's sweet-sour joys did prove
She should too dear a guest with horror dwell?
Weak influence of heaven! what fair ye frame
Falls in the prime and passeth like a dream.

O woful life! Life? No but living death
Frail boat of crystal in a rocky sea
A sport expos'd to Fortune's stormy breath
Which kept with pain with terror doth decay:
The false delights true woes thou dost bequeath
Mine all-appalled mind do so affray
That I those envy who are laid in earth
And pity them that run thy dreadful way.
When did mine eyes behold one cheerful morn?
When had my tossed soul one night of rest?
When did not hateful stars my projects scorn?
O! now I find for mortals what is best
Even sith our voyage shameful is and short
Soon to strike sail and perish in the port.

Mine eyes dissolve your globes in briny streams
And with a cloud of sorrow dim your sight
The sun's bright sun is set of late whose beams
Gave lustre to your day day to your night.
My voice now deafen earth with anathemes
Roar forth a challenge in the world's despite
Tell that disguised grief is her delight
That life a slumber is of fearful dreams.
And woful mind abhor to think of joy
My senses all now comfortless you hide
Accept no object but of black annoy
Tears plaints sighs mourning weeds graves gaping wide.
I have nought left to wish my hopes are dead
And all with her beneath a marble laid. 

My lute be as thou wert when thou didst grow
With thy green mother in some shady grove
When immelodious winds but made thee move
And birds their ramage did on the bestow.
Since that dear Voice which did thy sounds approve
Which wont in such harmonious strains to flow
Is reft from Earth to tune those spheres above
What art thou but a harbinger of woe?
Thy pleasing notes be pleasing notes no more
But orphans' wailings to the fainting ear
Each stroke a sigh each sound draws forth a tear
For which be silint as in woods before
Or if that any hand to touch thee deign
Like widow'd turtle still her loss complain. 

Beyond the low marsh-meadows and the beach
Seen through the hoary trunks of windy pines
The long blue level of the ocean shines.
The distant surf with hoarse complaining speech
Out from its sandy barrier seems to reach
And while the sun behind the woods declines
The moaning sea with sighing boughs combines
And waves and pines make answer each to each.
O melancholy soul whom far and near
In life faith hope the same sad undertone
Pursues from thought to thought! thou needs must hear
An old refrain too much too long thine own:
'This thy mortality infects thine ear
The mournful strain was in thyself alone.

In the old void of unrecorded time
In long slow aeons of the voiceless past
A seed from out the weltering fire-mist cast
Took root--a struggling plant that from its prime
Through rudiments uncouth through rock and slime
Grew changing form and issue--and clinging fast
Stretched its aspiring tendrils--till at last
Shaped like a spirit it began to climb
Beyond its rugged stem with leaf and bud
Still burgeoning to greet the sunlit air
That clothed its regal top with love and power
And compassed it as with a heavenly flood
Until it burst in bloom beyond compare
The world's consummate peerless human flower.

Shall that bright flower the countless ages toiled
And travailed to bring forth--shall that rare rose
Whose bloom and fragrance earth and heaven unclose
Their treasuries to enrich by death be foiled?
Its matchless splendour trampled down and spoiled?
Shall that Celestial Love--who watched its throes
Through centuries of long struggles and of woes
And freed it from the old Serpent round it coiled
Who tended it and reared its glorious head
Above the brambles and the poisonous marsh
And shielded it when zones were cased in ice--
Leave it to perish when the summons harsh
Of death is rung--or ere its leaves are shed
Transplant it to his realm of Paradise? 

O solemn portal veiled in mist and cloud
Where all who have lived throng in an endless line
Forbid to tell by backward look or sign
What destiny awaits the advancing crowd
Bourne crossed but once with no return allowed:
Dumb spectral gate terrestrial yet divine
Beyond whose arch all powers and fates combine
Pledged to divulge no secrets of the shroud.
Close close behind we step and strive to catch
Some whisper in the dark some glimmering light
Through circling whirls of thought intent to snatch
A drifting hope--a faith that grows to sight
And yet assured whatever may befall
That must be somehow best that comes to all.

If death be final what is life with all
Its lavish promises its thwarted aims
Its lost ideals its dishonoured claims
Its uncompleted growth? A prison wall
Whose heartless stones but echo back our call
An epitaph recording but our names
A puppet-stage where joys and griefs and shames
Furnish a demon jesters' carnival
A plan without a purpose or a form
A roofless temple
an unfinished tale.
And men like madrepores through calm and storm
Toil die to build a branch of fossil frail
And add from all their dreams thoughts acts belief
A few more inches to a coral reef. 

In boyhood's days we read with keen delight
How young Aladdin rubbed his lamp and raised
The towering Djin whose form his soul amazed
Yet who was pledged to serve him day and night.
But Gutenberg evoked a giant sprite
Of vaster power when Europe stood and gazed
To see him rub his types with ink. Then blazed
Across the lands a glorious shape of light
Who stripped the cowl from priests the crown from kings
And hand in hand with Faith and Science wrought
To free the struggling spirit's limd wings
And guard the ancestral throne of sovereign Thought.
The world was dumb. Then first it found its tongue
And spake -- and heaven and earth in answer rung. 

With streaming pennons scorning sail and oar
With steady tramp and swift revolving wheel
And even pulse from throbbing heart of steel
She plies her arrowy course from shore to shore.
In vain the siren calms her steps allure
In vain the billows thunder on her keel
Her giant form may toss and rock and reel
And shiver in the wintry tempest's roar
The calms and storms alike her pride can spurn.
True to the day she keeps her appointed time.
Long leagues of ocean vanish at her stern --
She drinks the air and tastes another clime
Where men their former wonder fast unlearn
Which hailed her coming as a thing sublime. 

Whirling along its living freight it came
Hot panting fierce yet docile to command --
The roaring monster blazing through the land
Athwart the night with crest of smoke and flame
Like those weird bulls Medea learned to tame
By sorcery yoked to plough the Colchian strand
In forced obedience under Jason's hand.
Yet modern skill outstripped this antique fame
When o'er our plains and through the rocky bar
Of hills it pushed its ever-lengthening line
Of iron roads with gain far more divine
Than when the daring Argonauts from far
Came for the golden fleece which like a star
Hung clouded in the dragon-guarded shrine. 

Fleeter than time across the Continent
Through unsunned ocean depths from beach to beach
Around the rolling globe Thought's couriers reach.
The new-tuned earth like some vast instrument
Tingles from zone to zone
for Art has lent
New nerves new pulse new motion -- all to each
And each to all in swift electric speech
Bound by a force unwearied and unspent.
Now lone Katahdin talks with Caucasus
The Arctic ice-fields with the sultry South
The sun-bathed palm thrills to the pine-tree's call.
We for all realms were made and they for us.
For all there is a soul an ear a mouth
And Time and Space are naught. The mind is all.

Phoebus Apollo from Olympus driven
Lived with Admetus tending herds and flocks:
And strolling o'er the pastures and the rocks
He found his life much duller than in Heaven.
For he had left his bow his songs his lyre
His divinations and his healing skill
And as a serf obeyed his master's will.
One day a new thought waked an old desire.
He took to painting with his colors seven
The sheep the cows the faces of the swains
All shapes and hues in forests and on plains.
These old sun-pictures all are lost or given
Away among the gods. Man owns but half
The Sun-god's secret -- in the Photograph.

All honor to that keen Promethean soul
Who caught the prismic hues of Jove and Mars
And from the glances of the ddal stars
And from the fiery sun the secret stole
That all are parts of one primeval Whole --
One substance beaming through Creation's bars
Consent and peace amid the chemic wars
Of gases and of atoms. Yonder roll
The planets
yonder baffling human thought
Suns systems all whose burning hearts are wooed
To one confession -- so hath Science caught
Those eye-beams frank whose speech cannot delude --
How of one stuff our mortal earth is wrought
With stars in their divine infinitude. 

The small enlarged the distant nearer brought
To sight made marvels in a denser age.
But Science turns with every year a page
In the enchanted volume of her thought.
The wizard's wand no longer now is sought.
Yet with a cunning toy the Archimage
May hear from Rome Vesuvius' thunders rage
And earthquake mutterings underground are caught
Alike with trivial sounds. Would there might rise
Some spiritual seer some prophet wise
Whose tactile vision would avert the woes
Born of conflicting forces in the state
--
Some listener to the deep volcanic throes
Below the surface -- ere we cry "Too late!"
O! 'twas a ruthless deed enough to pale
Freedom's bright fires that doom'd to shameful death
Those that maintained their faith with latest breath
And scorn'd beneath the despot's frown to quail!
Yet 'twas a glorious hour when from the gaol
Of Papal tyranny the mind of man
Dared to break loose and triumph in the ban
Of thunders warring in the distant gale!
Yes old memorial of the mitred monk
Thou livest to flourish in a brighter day
With seeming joy that pure and patriot vows
Are breath'd where superstition reign'd: thy trunk
Its glad green garlands wears though in decay
And pious red-breasts warble from thy boughs. 

The Lord of light has journey'd down the sky
And bath'd his coursers in the foaming wave
The twinkling star of Even too hastes to lave
Her silver form and vanish from my eye.
Now dusky twilight flings her sombre shade
O'er the bright beauties of teh silent vale
The aspen trembles not the verdant blade
No longer nodding answers to the gale.
Come sweet Reflection! hither pensive maid
Direct thy wandering steps and on this stone
Worn by no traveller's feet with moss o'ergrown
Repose with me in solitude's deep shade.
Then shall I know the height of human bliss
And taste the joy of other worlds in this. 

From its frail stem tear not the rose" you said
"Nor brush from wings so fragile all their gold
Lest in your unrewarded hand you hold
Only alas torn plumes and petals dead!
Ah plead no more"--you bowed your troubled head--
"Lest we who loved and listened dear of old
In life's cage kiss this singing glory cold
And find bruised petals where the rose hung red!"
I take the solace and endure the smart
Bend close O wondering brow and turn to me
Thos wistful lips those eyes of mournful blue
Where still the old smile steals for light of heart
The fleeting rose the unassuaging voices see
I leave and lose but You--oh never You!

Caesar when that the traitor of Egypt
With the honorable head did him present
Covering his gladness did represent
Plaint with his tears outward as it is writ
And Hanniball eke when fortune him shit
Clean from his reign and from all his intent
Laughed to his folk whom sorrow did torment
His cruel despite for to disgorge and quit.
So chanceth it oft that every passion
The mind hideth by colour contrary
With feigned visage now sad now merry
Whereby if I laughed any time or season
It is for because I have n'other way
To cloak my care but under sport and play. 

The long love that in my heart doth harbor
And in mine heart doth keep his residence
Into my face presseth with bold pretense
And there campeth displaying his banner.
She that me learneth to love and to suffer
And wills that my trust and lust's negligence
Be reined by reason shame and reverence
With his hardiness taketh displeasure.
Wherewith love to the heart's forest he fleeth
Leaving his enterprise with pain and cry
And there him hideth and not appeareth.
What may I do when my master feareth
But in the field with him to live and die?
For good is the life ending faithfully. 

Whoso list to hunt I know where is an hind
But as for me alas I may no more
The vain travail hath wearied me so sore
I am of them that furthest come behind.
Yet may I by no means my wearied mind
Draw from the deer but as she fleeth afore
Fainting I follow
I leave off therefore
Since in a net I seek to hold the wind.
Who list her hunt I put him out of doubt
As well as I may spend his time in vain.
And graven with diamonds in letters plain
There is written her fair neck round about
"Noli me tangere for Caesar's I am
And wild for to hold though I seem tame."

Was I never yet of your love grieved
Nor never shall while that my life doth last.
But of hating myself that date is past
And tears continual sore have me wearied.
I will not yet in my grave be buried
Nor on my tomb yoiur name yfixed fast
As cruel cause that did the spirit soon haste
From th'unhappy bones by great sighs stirred.
Then if an heart of amorous faith and will
May content you without doing grief
Please it you so to this to do relief.
If otherwise ye seek for to fulfill
Your disdain ye err and shall not as ye ween
And ye yourself the cause thereof hath been.

If amorous faith in heart unfeigned
A sweet languor a great lovely desire
If honest will kindled in gentle fire
If long error in a blind maze chained
If in my visage each thought depainted
Or else in my sparkling voice lower or higher
Which now fear now shame woefully doth tire
If a pale colour which love hath stained
If to have another than myself more dear
If wailing or sighing continually
With sorrowful anger feeding busily
If burning afar off and freezing near
Are cause that by love myself I destroy
Yours is the fault and mine the great annoy. 

My heart I gave thee not to do it pain
But to preserve it was to thee taken.
I served thee not to be forsaken
But that I should be rewarded again.
I was content thy servant to remain
But not to be paid under this fashion.
Now since in thee is none other reason
Displease thee not if that I do refrain
Unsatiate of my woe and thy desire
Assured by craft to excuse thy fault.
But since it please thee to feign a default
Farewell I say parting from the fire:
For he that believeth bearing in hand
Plougheth in water and soweth in the sand. 

Some fowls there be that have so perfect sight
Again the sun their eyes for to defend
And some because the light doth them offend
Do never 'pear but in the dark or night.
Other rejoice that see the fire bright
And ween to play in it as they do pretend
And find the contrary of it that they intend.
Alas of that sort I may be by right
For to withstand her look I am not able
And yet can I not hide me in no dark place
Remembrance so followeth me of that face.
So that with teary eyen swollen and unstable
My destiny to behold her doth me lead
Yet do I know I run into the gleed. 

Because I have thee still kept from lies and blame
And to my power always have I thee honoured
Unkind tongue right ill hast thou me rendered
For such desert to do me wreak and shame.
In need of succour most when that I am
To ask reward then standest thou like one afeard
Alway most cold
and if thou speak toward
It is as in dream unperfect and lame.
And ye salt tears again my will each night
That are with me when fain I would be alone
Then are ye gone when I should make my moan.
And you so ready sighs to make me shright
Then are ye slack when that ye should outstart
And only my look declareth my heart.

I find no peace and all my war is done:
I fear and hope
I burn and freeze like ice
I fly above the wind yet can I not arise
And nought I have and all the world I seize on
That locketh nor loseth holdeth me in prison
And holdeth me not yet can I 'scape nowise:
Nor letteth me live nor die at my devise
And yet of death it giveth me occasion.
Without eyen I see and without tongue I 'plain
I desire to perish and yet I ask health
I love another and thus I hate myself
I feed me in sorrow and laugh in all my pain.
Likewise displeaseth me both death and life
And my delight is causer of this strife.

Though I myself be bridled of my mind
Returning me backward by force express
If thou seek honour to keep thy promise
Who may thee hold my heart but thou thyself unbind?
Sigh then no more since no way man may find
Thy virtue to let though that frowardness
Of fortune me holdeth
and yet as I may guess
Though other be present thou art not all behind.
Suffice it then that thou be ready there
At all hours still under the defence
Of time truth and love to save thee from offence
Crying "I burn in a lovely desire
With my dear master's that may not follow
Whereby his absence turneth him to sorrow."

My galley charged with forgetfulness
Through sharp seas in winter nights doth pass
Tween rock and rock and eke my foe (alas)
That is my lord steereth with cruelness.
And every oar a thought in readiness
As though that death were light in such a case
An endless wind doth tear the sail apace
Of forced sighs and trusty fearfulness
A rain of tears a cloud of dark distain
Have done the wearied cords great hinderance
Wreathed with error and eke with ignorance
The stars be hid that lead me to this pain.
Drowned is reason that should me consort
And I remain despairing of the port.

Avising the bright beams of these fair eyes
Where he is that mine oft moisteth and washeth
The worried mind straight from the heart departeth
For to rest his worldly paradise
And find the sweet bitter under this guise.
What webs he hath wrought well he perceiveth
Whereby with himself on Love he plaineth
That spurreth with fire and bridleth with ice.
Thus is it in such extremity brought:
In frozen thought now and now it standeth in flame
'Twixt misery and wealth 'twixt earnest and game
But few glad and many a diverse thought
With sore repentance of his hardiness.
Of such a root cometh fruit fruitless. 

Ever mine hap is slack and slow in coming
Desire increasing mine hope uncertain
That leave it or wait it doth me like pain
And tiger-like swift it is in parting.
Alas the snow shall be black and scalding
The sea waterless fish in the mountain
The Thames shall return back into his fountain
And where he rose the sun shall take lodging
Ere that I in this find peace or quietness
In that Love or my lady rightwisely
Leave to conspire again me wrongfully.
And if that I have after such bitterness
Anything sweet my mouth is out of taste
That all my trust and travail is but waste.

Love and Fortune and my mind rememb'rer
Of that that is now with that that hath been
Do torment me so that I very often
Envy them beyond all measure.
Love slayeth mine heart. Fortune is depriver
Of all my comfort. The foolish mind then
Burneth and plaineth as one that seldom
Liveth in rest still in displeasure.
My pleasant days they fleet away and pass
But daily yet the ill doth change into the worse
And more than the half is run of my course.
Alas not of steel but of brickle glass
I see that from mine hand falleth my trust
And all my thoughts are dashed into dust.

How oft have I my dear and cruel foe
With those your eyes for to get peace and truce
Proffered you mine heart! But you do not use
Among so high things to cast your mind so low.
If any other look for it as ye trow
Their vain weak hope doth greatly them abuse.
And thus I disdain that that ye refuse:
It was once mine it can no more be so.
If I then it chase nor it in you can find
In this exile no manner of comfort
Nor live alone nor where he is called resort
He may wander from his natural kind.
So shall it be great hurt unto us twain
And yours the loss and mine the deadly pain.

Like to these immeasurable mountains
Is my painful life the burden of ire:
For of great height be they and high is my desire
And I of tears and they be full of fountains.
Under craggy rocks they have full barren plains
Hard thoughts in me my woeful mind doth tire.
Small fruit and many leaves their tops do attire
Small effect with great trust in me remains.
The boist'rous winds oft their high boughs do blast
Hot sighs from me continually be shed.
Cattle in them and in me love is fed.
Immovable am I and they are full steadfast.
Of the restless birds they have the tune and note
And I always plaints that pass thorough my throat.

Farewell love and all thy laws forever
Thy baited hooks shall tangle me no more.
Senec and Plato call me from thy lore
To perfect wealth my wit for to endeavor.
In blind error when I did persever
Thy sharp repulse that pricketh aye so sore
Taught me in trifles that I set no store
But scape forth since liberty is lever.
Therefore farewell go trouble younger hearts
And in me claim no more authority
With idle youth go use thy property
And thereon spend thy many brittle darts.
For hitherto though I have lost my time
Me list no longer rotten boughs to climb.

Unstable dream according to the place
Be steadfast once or else at least be true
By tasted sweetness make me not to rue
The sudden loss of thy false feigned grace.
By good respect in such a dangerous case
Thou broughtest not her into this tossing mew
But madest my sprite live my care to renew
My body in tempest her succour to embrace.
The body dead the sprite had his desire
Painless was th' one th' other in delight.
Why then alas did it not keep it right
Returning to leap into the fire?
And where it was at wish it could not remain
Such mocks of dreams they turn to deadly pain.

Divers doth use as I have heard and know
When that to change their ladies do begin
To mourn and wail and never for to lin
Hoping thereby to pease their painful woe.
And some there be that when it chanceth so
That women change and hate where love hath been
They call them false and think with words to win
The hearts of them which otherwhere doth grow.
But as for me though that by chance indeed
Change hath outworn the favor that I had
I will not wail lament nor yet be sad
Nor call her false that falsely did me feed
But let it pass and think it is of kind
That often change doth please a woman's mind. 

Suppose the dreaded messenger of death
Should hasten steps that seem though sure so slow
And soon should whisper with his chilly breath:
"Arise! thine hour has sounded thou must go
For they that earliest taste life's holiest feast
Must early fast lest grown too bold they dare
Of them that follow after seize the share."
Then though my pulse's beat forever ceased
If where I slumbered thou shouldst chance to pass
Though grave-bound I thy presence should discern
Heedless of coffin-lid and tangled grass
Upward to kiss thy feet my lips would yearn
And did one spark of love thy heart inflame
With the old rapture I should call thy name. 

"And this is freedom?" cried the serf. "At last
I tread free soil the free air blows on me"
And wild to learn the sweets of liberty
With eager hope his bosom bounded fast.
But not for naught had the long years amassed
Habit of slavery
among the free
He still was servile and disheartened he
Crept back to the old bondage of the past.
Long did I bear a hard and heavy chain
Wreathd with amaranth and asphodel
But through the flower-breaths stole the heavy pain.
I cast it off and fled but 'twas in vain
For when once more I passed by where it fell
I took it up and bound it on again. 

One cannot draw the bars against the friends
And guests that crowd for entrance at his gate
He opes inviting nor the simple state
Of his abode against their train defends
But there are chambers where the lover tends
His sacred fires
where no feet penetrate
Save of immortals
where early and late
The breath of prayer and sacrifice ascends.
In such a spot as this as in the shrine
Of some white temple in a dusk made sweet
With incense far from outer noise and heat
And hollow haste of them that part and meet
Surrounded by dim presences divine
My soul communes eternally with thine. 

Stern be the pilot in the dreadful hour
When a great nation like a ship at sea
With the wroth breakers whitening at her lee
Feels her last shudder if her Helmsman cower
A godlike manhood be his mighty dower!
Such and so gifted Lincoln may'st thou be
With thy high wisdom's low simplicity
And awful tenderness of voted power.
From our hot records then thy name shall stand
On Time's calm ledger out of passionate days--
With the pure debt of gratitude begun
And only paid in never-ending praise--
One of the many of a mighty Land
Made by God's providence the Anointed One. 

Dear Nan at thy command I string a sonnet
And must in rhyme surpass the Italian skill
Full fourteen lines with flimsy jingle fill.
What fools we lovers are--I've thus begun it--
The task is hard but yet I dare not shun it--
I'll persevere and bid the muse distil
Strength in my thought from her inspiring rill.
Till to the length required I've neatly spun it.
But when at length thy fettered bard has done it
Poor is the thought--the sentiment how chill!
See where he stands! Knight of the dashing quill!
Bewigged a critic and he'll poop upon it
But let the witless growler have his will
I bargained for thy kiss and have now fairly won it.
Not only that thy puissant arm could bind
The tyrant of a world
and conquering Fate
Enfranchise Europe do I deem thee great
But that in all thy actions I do find
Exact propriety: no gusts of mind
Fitful and wild but that continuous state
Of ordered impulse mariners await
In some benignant and enriching wind--
The breath ordained of Nature. Thy calm mien
Recalls old Rome as much as thy high deed
Duty thine only idol and serene
When all are troubled
in the utmost need
Prescient
thy country's servant ever seen
Yet sovereign of thyself whate'er may speed. 

All the world was Eden once you know
And Paradise was ours everywhere
No jealous hedge joy's limits to declare
No sullen wall our Garden-bounds to show
No thorns did then beneath the roses grow
And winter's blast was as a dream-love's kiss--
A lightsome rapture
every task a bliss
Sweet-laden as the air where lilies blow.
For I was all of Eden to you then
And you were all of Paradise to me
And each in other all the world were we
Till drenched in golden love-light we again
Love-lavish flung its spell o'er everything
And Nature's self lay 'witched within the ring. 

Where all was Eden all is Eden-less.
The Garden vanished--earth and sea and sky
The sunbeams flowers--even as you and I
All sundered stand in stricken loneliness
The tangled Paradise a wilderness
Of ordered isolations! The great soul
Which made of all things one harmonious whole
Shredded to serve the fragments which caress
The separate being they curse! Nought but the Gate
Remains--fronting our Life as day by day
It seeks the happiness it cast away
To snatch a venomed knowledge. Alas! stern fate--
To find its own discarded innocence
Become a flaming sword to drive it thence. 

"Come build me a statue all of snow!"
Said the Medici prince and patron of Art
And Michael Angelo aflame at heart
With noble shame to cast his visions so
In fleeting form for pride's caprices low:
His Muse all mutinous humbled to her part
And bade a Seraph from the snow out-start.
He came--and perished in the noon-day glow.
Great world! proud patron of th' aspiring mind--
Dispenser of rewards--thou holdest still
In thrall alas! the genius of mankind.
Exact full toll but not that he fulfil
His soul in vanities
nay rather find
Best worth in workers who transcend thy will.
In deep green woods there lies a fairy glade
Shut in by tawny hemlocks wild and tall
Its floor is made with richest moss and all
Its round is steeped in most delicious shade.
It is a spot for listening silence made.
Few sounds awake it save the wild bird's call
And winds that murmur round its forest wall
like instruments at airy distance played.
'Tis there a still and stolen guest I lie
And listen to the weird wood-spirits singing:
I hear their bell-like voices floating nigh
From arches green and dewy dingles springing
They pass in elfin song and laughter by
I hear their clear ha! ha! In deep dells ringing.


Thou art the friend and comrade Poesy
For whom I suffer all things still content
If not in vain for thee my light is spent
The share of heavenly light that fell on me.
Thou art my meat my drink my liberty
Thou art my garb thou art my tenement
Wherein I hide all night from floods unpent
From lightnings winds and scourgings of the sea.
Oh thou art strong and lovely as the light
Yea as the light of morning strong and sweet!
Thou art the lover perfect in my sight
Attending all my steps with eager feet
The form the image in my dreams at night
The morning glory that I rise to greet.


Blank shadow here. The heights on either hand
Sparkle with lamps. Around me foams the bold
Loud Hudsonswiftly into darkness rolled.
Those vanish all and Memory takes her stand
In that wild cave among that famous band
Girt round by unseen terrors manifold
Revealed in that enchanting fiction old
Blown hence through many an alien tongue and land.
I see the haughty Uncas and the wise
Grim Sagamore
hear Hawkeye's cheery call
The singer's strains of sacred sounds compact
And then I hear the holy hymn arise
From the sweet Sister's lips
and borne through all

Welcome strong soul of Poesy once more!
O where so long hast thou been wandering?
Thou comest to me like the gales of spring
That tell me winter's blasts are blown and o'er.
Since thou took'st sail and left me on the shore
Far vanishing as on a sea-bird's wing
I've heard but steely tempests round me ring
Crushed down 'neath ocean's mighty overpour!
Where wert thou? They did scourge me till my cry
Outrang the tempest! yea my soul was tried
Till angels saw and pitied me on high!
They flew like doves and brought thee with the tide.
And now that thou art come joy hovereth nigh
Dimpling the deep with laughter far and wide!

'Tis not where sculpture rules a world grown dim
Fair Hellas lies so dear to poet's heart
Not in the galleries of sacred art
Where group the old gods maimed in trunk and limb.
Nor is it where enchanted islands swim
The warm gean waves and where apart
Through rosy mists Olympian heights upstart
And float like dreams on the horizon's rim.
Ah where is Hellas then? 'Tis where fresh eyes
Look forth with love on nature's face again
There dreams spring up and fairy visions rise
And hallowed fanes appear by cliff and glen.
In the warm breast of Nature Hellas lies
Great mother of all gods and godlike men.


A pulseless languor lay upon the sea
The solemn mountains rested in their calm
The mighty forests slumbered and the palm
Above the warm sands brooded breathlessly
The heavens bent down in dark expectancy
Then suddenly the clouds burst 'midst the strain
Drenching the woods with torrents of warm rain
Till in their deeps they roared tumultuously!
It ceased
the sun broke forth with fire and then
O how the birds sang! Such a joyous choir
Woke in the heart of hidden glade and glen
As when a god immortal strikes his lyre
In deep Parnassian groves afar from men
'Mid smoke and incense from his altar fire.

There is a kingdom in a rugged land
It lies between a mountain and a sea
A torrent roaring down in headlong glee
Divides it from a forest's ancient stand
And in its narrow bounds by nature planned
A happy monarch reigns in majesty
Though small his realm and few his subjects be
Supremest powers obey his mild command
And I a pilgrim from a land forlorn
Find shelter there and rest for weary feet
Welcome from fiery toil and desert heat
To genial feasts of royal wine and corn
The king and I together sit at meat
And drink deep draughts from friendship's holy horn.

We sat upon the shore my friend and I
The lake lay rocking in the morning shine
Odors of gum were round us and a pine
Played music while the waves danced ceaselessly.
Joy of wild woods and waters and blue sky
Flowed through our spirits like celestial wine
We talked of poet's hopes and thoughts divine
And he was generous and I was shy.
O golden heart of all that golden day
Wise friend! so kind to my reluctant thought
So gentle with the grace that went astray
Through stammering speech and woodland ways untaught!
He read me by the things I dared not say
And loved me for the trust that doubted naught.

Ah Poesy! thou glorious deadly thing
Fair to create and merciless to slay
What have we done to thee that day by day
Thou wearest us with fruitless suffering?
Is it for thine own glory thou dost wring
These souls with pangs that waste our hearts away
This fairest web of life to fret and fray
Weaving thereof our grave-clothes while we sing?
Thou art like Love that wastes us in our spring
Or art thou Love's own self though grown less gay
That in this guise dost lead us still astray
And cheat us with the glitter of a wing?
I know not
only when I look I see
Toil paid with pain and faith with mockery.
The very spirit of summer breathes to-day
Here where I sun me in a dreamy mood
And laps the sultry leas and seems to brood
Tenderly o'er those hazed hills far away.
The air is fragrant with the new-mown hay
And drowsed with hum of myriad flies pursued
By twittering martins. All yon hillside wood
Is drowned in sunshine till its green looks grey.
No scrap of cloud is in the still blue sky
Vaporous with heat from which the foreground trees
Stand out--each leaf cut sharp. The whetted scythe
Makes rustic music for me as I lie
Watching the gambols of the children blythe
Drinking the season's sweetness to the lees. 

What means this mighty chant wherein its wail
Of some intolerable woe grown strong
With sense of more intolerable wrong
Swells to a stern victorious march--a gale
Of vengeful wrath? What mean the faces pale
The fierce resolve the ecstatic pangs along
Life's fiery ways the demon thoughts which throng
The gates of awe when these wild notes assail
The sleeping of our souls ? Hear ye no more
Than the mad foam of revolution's leaven
Than a roused people's throne-o'erwhelming tread?
Hark! 'tis man's spirit thundering on the shore
Of iron fate
the tramp of Titans dread

Sworn to dethrone the Gods unjust from Heaven.
Pale Primrose! lingering for the evening star
To bless thee with its beam--like some fair child
Who ere he rests on Morpheus' downy car
Doth wait his mother's blessing pure and mild
To hallow his gay dream. His red lips breathe
The prompted prayer fast by that parent's knee
Even as thou rear'st thy sweetly fragrant wreath
To matron Evening while she smiles on thee.
Go to thy rest pale flower! the star hath shed
His benison upon thy bosom fair
The dews of summer bathe thy pensive head
And weary man forgets his daily care

Sleep on my rose! till morning gilds the sky
And bright Aurora's kiss unseal thy trembling eye.
I marked the young mimosa gaily dight
With feathery foliage trembling in the breeze
And tufts of golden flowers whence drowsy bees
Sweet laden hummed their unrestrained delight.
In after years the full-grown tree I passed
Its flowers and foliage gone and in their stead
A crop of huge white thorns inspiring dread.
Father! I pray that when life's blooms are cast
And old age pours its snows upon my head
Thy kindly hand whose pruning skill adorns
"The trees of righteousness" may lop my thorns.
And may my roots with dewy moisture fed
Nourish a stem to which a child may come
And fearless gather drops of crystal gum.

O sweet Queen-city of the golden South
Piercing the evening with thy star-lit spires
Thou wert a witness when I kissed the mouth
Of her whose eyes outblazed the skyey fires.
I saw the parallels of thy long streets
With lamps like angels shining all a-row
While overhead the empyrean seats
Of gods were steeped in paradisic glow.
The Pleiades with rarer fires were tipt
Hesper sat throned upon his jewelled chair
The belted giant's triple stars were dipt
In all the splendour of Olympian air
On high to bless the Southern Cross did shine
Like that which blazed o'er conquering Constantine. 

Blithe fancy lightly builds with airy hands
Or on the edges of the darkness peers
Breathless and frightened at the Voice she hears:
Imagination (lo! the sky expands)
Travels the blue arch and Cimmerian sands--
Homeless on earth the pilgrim of the spheres
The rush of light before the hurrying years
The Voice that cries in unfamiliar lands.
Men weigh the moons that flood with eerie light
The dusky vales of Saturn--wood and stream--
But who shall follow on the awful sweep
Of Neptune through the dim and dreadful deep?
Onward he wanders in the unknown night
And we are shadows moving in a dream. 

A sonnet is the body of a thought
Which enters suddenly into the poet's mind
And breathes its way mysterious as the wind
Unrecognised as first it was unsought.
Whilst yet unformed 'tis kindred to the Naught
Whence it arose: the poet still must find
Some spirit-worthy shape in which to bind
The subtle life wherewith his mind is fraught.
A stanza from the mental deep
Rhymes well-disposed with rhythm of even flow
Full use of sense due length of limb it gives
A body fit. The thought aroused from sleep
Flushes the rhythm with a poetic glow
And in the sonnet's form for ever lives. 

Great Table Mountain which I daily scan
With still increasing joy this morn was framed
In a low rainbow Phbus rightly aimed
Just to include the outline in its span.
And surely never since the world began
Was Nature's ruggedness more sweetly tamed.
Yet through my heart a sudden terror flamed
Heaven's smile more dread inspires than earthly ban.
Such is the alchemy of sun and rain:
Touching earth's choicest dream of loveliness
It turned life's daily pleasure into awe.
And pray what meant it? Nay I cannot guess:
But all that is within me--soul heart brain--
Was dumbly glorified by what I saw. 

A child I chased the rainbow once and wept
Because I could not reach its glorious ray.
In life's decline I stood amid the spray
Where all Zambesi down its gorges leapt
And as into the cloud I careless stept
The rainbow forward moving came my way.
With round completed on the grass it lay.
And o'er my feet the rosy radiance crept.
So do we chase our fancies and despair
At length of joys that made our youth so sweet
Till some day God's ideal now unsought
Bodies itself in some diviner air
And filling with its radiance all our thought
Completes its circle at our very feet. 

Only upon its tendrils blooms the vine--
Those tendrils by whose aid it soars aloft
And lifts its bannered leafage broad and soft
Above the stronger elm. Its gold shoots twine
High up in the air in sweet mock-martial line
As if its strength were all its own. Yet doff'd
Of these its tendrils prone upon the croft
In barren weakness must it soon recline.
Only the tendril blooms
only the flower
Gives fruit
and only for the fruit it brings
Does the vine live. The Christian soul likewise
Only in humble clinging finds its power
And like the Master's Vine piercing the skies
Bears fruit in that alone whereby it clings. 

When first he came angels 'mid heavenly glow
By sweet compulsion drawn to earth to sing
Made the clear welkin with their Gloria ring.
Men wondering asked "Why sing ye here below?"
When from the mount they saw him upward go
His glad disciples stood a-marvelling
As if their souls they after him would fling
Angels in wonder asked "Why gaze ye so?"
Thus near His presence both in wonder are
But once we see our God the mystery ends.
Where the sun rises there must be the morn.
Where the Babe smiles or where our King ascends
Thither all hearts are violently borne
And captive follow Love's triumphal car. 

Creator Spirit Lord of life and light
Under Thy brooding care the world began.
Through Thee the elements together ran
And built up order from the void of night.
Through Thee life darkling struggled into sight
Then adding power to power placed in the van
A being soul-endowed Thy creature man
Lifted by Thee beyond all earthly height.
O Love who through this elemental strife
Didst bring a universe to such increase
Brood o'er the chaos of my sin-fraught soul.
Let there be light in me: let order life
Reason and grace resume their sway and peace
Subdue my little world from pole to pole. 

Behold that dark brown chrysalis seeming dead--
Can such things live? Will life's reviving might
Arouse this sleeper from so dark a night?
Yes see!--there issues from it[s] tomb-like bed
A creature from whose airy wings are shed
Bright beams of living many-coloured light.
Thus have I seen a spirit take its flight.
Over its wings had error's meshes spread
The bonds of lie and prejudice and hell:
And the beholder in an underbreath
Sighed sadly as he whispered "This is death!"
But no--a power thrills through the lifeless shell
And into glorious morn the spirit springs
The light of heaven gleaming from its wings. 

Heaven's balance was all trembling when it eyed
Mary unwonted trouble on her brow
Confronting God with an imperial "How?"
For once this once Heaven hoped to be denied
Nor hoped in vain. To be no earthly bride
Was always Mary's gift to Heaven
and now
Strong in the splendour of her virgin vow
She waives the Motherhood of God aside.
O queenly spirit! O Heart Immaculate!
This world contained no measure of thy worth.
All other souls with inward strife are torn
Thou wert so heavenly thy royal state
So towered supreme above the dross of earth
That even thy temptations were heaven-born.
In these days every mother's son or daughter
Writes verse which no one reads except the writer
Although uninked the paper would be whiter
And worth per ream a hare when you have caught her.
Hundreds of unstaunched Shelleys daily water
Unanswering dust
a thousand Wordsworths scribble
And twice a thousand Corn Law Rhymers dribble
Rhymed prose unread. Hymners of fraud and slaughter
By cant called other names alone find buyers--
Who buy but read not. "What a loss in paper"
Groans each immortal of the host of sighers!
"What profanation of the midnight taper
In expirations vile! But I write well
And wisely print. Why don't my poems sell?" 

John. In the sound of that rebellious word
There is brave music. Jack and Jacobin
Are vulgar terms
law-linked to shame and sin
They have a twang of Jack the Hangman's cord:
Yet John hath merit which can well afford
To be called Jack's. By life's strange offs and ons!
Glory hath had great dealings with the Johns
Since history first awaked where fable snored.
John Cade John Huss John Hampden and John Knox!
Ay these were the names of fellows who had will.
John Wilson's name far sounded sounds not ill
But how unlike John Milton's or John Locke's!
John Bright like Locke and Milton scorns paid sloth
And Johnson might have liked to gibbet both.

A hireling's wages to the priest are paid
While lives and dies in want and rags the bard!
But preaching ought to be its own reward
And not a sordid if an honest trade.
Paul laboring proudly with his hands arrayed
Regenerated hearts in peace and love
And when with power they preached the mystic dove
Penn Barclay Clarkson asked not Mammon's aid.
As for its own sake poetry is sweet
To poets--so on tasks of mercy bound
Religion travels with unsandaled feet
Making the flinty desert holy ground
And never will her triumph be complete
While one paid pilgrim upon earth is found. 

Gnarled oak and holly! stone-cropped like the stone!
Are ye of it or is it part of you?
Your union strange is marvellously true
And makes the granite which I stand upon
Seem like the vision of an empire gone
Gone yet still present though it never was
Save as a shadow--let the shadow pass!
So perish human glories every one!
But rocks! ye are not shadows
trees! ye cast
The Almighty's shadow over the homeward bee
His name on Brimham! yea the coming blast
Beneath his curtains reads it here with me
And pauses not to number marvels past
But speeds the thunder on over land and sea. 

Why should the tiny harp be chained to themes
In fourteen lines with pedant rigour bound?
The sonnet's might is mightier than it seems:
Witness the bard of Eden lost and found
Who gave this lute a clarion's battle sound.
And lo! another Milton calmly turns
His eyes within a light that ever burns
Waiting till Wordsworth's second peer be found!
Meantime Fitzadam's mournful music shows
That the scorned sonnet's charm may yet endear
Some long deep strain or lay of well-tolled woes
Such as in Byron's couplet brings a tear
To manly cheeks or over his stanza throws
Rapture and grief solemnity and fear.

Toy of the Titans! Tiny Harp! again
I quarrel with the order of thy strings
Established by the law of sonnet-kings
And used by giants who do nought in vain.
Was Petrarch then mistaken in the strain
That charms Italia? Were they tasteless things
That Milton wrought? And are they mutterings
Untuneful that pay Wordsworth with pleased pain?
No. But I see that tyrants come of slaves
That states are won by rush of robbers' steel
And millions starved and tortured to their graves
Because as they are taught men think and feel
Therefore I change the sonnet's slavish notes
For cheaper music suited to my thoughts.

Abbey! for ever smiling pensively
How like a thing of Nature dost thou rise
Amid her loveliest works! as if the skies
Clouded with grief were arched thy roof to be
And the tall trees were copied all from thee!
Mourning thy fortunes--while the waters dim
Flow like the memory of thy evening hymn
Beautiful in their sorrowing sympathy
As if they with a weeping sister wept
Winds name thy name! But thou though sad art calm
And Time with thee his plighted troth hath kept
For harebells deck thy brow and at thy feet
Where sleep the proud the bee and redbreast meet
Mixing thy sighs with Nature's lonely psalm.

With this as little as it seems can one
Work wonders! build up cities plough the waste
Alter customs and laws and change the taste
Of nations set up thrones and pluck them down!
What privilege then claims it as its own?
Or what strange subjects neath its sway are placed
That thus with a few strokes can be effaced--
Things grey as time familiar as the sun?
Men's thoughts! these move all! act but on the thought
And will of man and then the lever by
Which mightiest revolutions have been wrought
Is in thy one weak hand! lost to man's eye.
Perhaps like God by few or known or sought
Those with two fingers movest the world's machinery! 

The sun is burning with intensest light
Behind yon grove
and in the golden glow
Of unconsuming Fire it doth show
Like to the Bush in which to Moses' sight
The Lord appeared! and O am I not right
In thinking that He reappears e'en now
To me in the old Glory? and I bow
My head in wonder hush'd before His might!
Yea! this whole world so vast to Faith's clear eye
Is but that burning Bush full of His Power
His Light and Glory
not consumed thereby
But made transparent: till in each least flower
Yea! in each smallest leaf she can descry
His Spirit shining through it visibly!

Silence broods o'er the mighty Babylon
And Darkness his twin brother with him keeps
His solemn watch
the wearied city sleeps
And Solitude strange contrast! muses on
The fate of man there whence the crowd anon
Will scare her with life's tumult! The great deeps
Of human Thought are stirless yet there creeps
As 'twere a far-off hum scarce heard then gone
On the still air
'tis the great Heart doth move
And beat at intervals soon from its sleep
To start refreshed. Oh Thou who rul'st above
Be with it in its dreams and let it keep
Awake the spirit of pure peace and love
Which Thou breath'st through it now so still and deep!

The golden foot-prints of departing Day
Are fading from the ocean silently
And Twilight stealing onward halves the sky
One after one they fade in light away
While with a thousand songs the Earth doth say
Farewell uplifting all her mountains high
To catch the last reflections ere they die
As one by one their peaks grow cold and grey.
Yon orb that hangs upon the ocean's rim
Looks Janus-like both back and forward too
And while it fades here to Earth's evening-hymn
It brightens from afar o'er regions new
Unto the songs of Morning raised to Him
Who thus 'twixt night and day the great line drew!

Sweet flower thou art a link of memory
An emblem to the heart of bright days flown
And in thy silence too there is a tone
That stirs the inmost soul more potently
Than if a trumpet's-voice had rent the sky!
I love thee much for when I stray alone
Stealing from Nature her calm thoughts which own
No self-disturbance and my curious eye
Catches thy magic glance methinks a spell
Has touched my soul: once more I grow a boy
Once more my thoughts that as a passing-bell
Seemed to toll o'er departed shapes of joy
Change to old chimes and in my bosom swell
Fresh pulses of a bliss without alloy. 

In this strait-waistcoat of poor fourteen lines
Our Shakspear cramped his mighty intellect.
'Tis as if Ocean should confines elect
Like tributary streams
Golconda's mines
Contract their splendours to one gem that shines
With fraction'd lustre
or great kings reject
Th'imperious sceptre and instead select
The pastoral crook. But genius all refines.
He in that circumscription still could move
A chartered libertine and spirits raise
By his "so potent art" all rules above
In that small charmed circle
to the rays
Of his fine wit it did a focus prove --
A wheel whose rondure close confine doth brace. 

O lame and impotent conclusion! 'Tis
As some full stream should run not to the sea
But lose itself in sand or stagnant be
Or proud steed his last winning leap should miss
And fall flat t'other side
or lovers kiss
And with their last word quarrel
or the bee
Taint all the honey by the flower he
Last sucked from
or dove's coo end with snake's hiss!
'Tis like Adonis with a cloven foot
Fair woman fish-like ending
richest vein
Of gold "at fault"
coarse patch in rarest suit
Mere discord in last notes of voice or strain
Angelic -- strange all these! That he should do it
Who wrote what went before more strange again!

Poor Thought! stretched on Rime's Procrustean bed
And threatened saving that it doth not kill
Outright with every mortal ache and ill
By Thought Thought in the flesh inherited
Clothed on with Words its mortal weeds. First head
And neck must crane and stretch
then feet until
Of prescribed length or lopped sometimes with skill
Surgeonly oftener hacked till well-nigh dead.
So liest thou on the rack Body and Soul
At odds in dread of rimed Death who waits
At every turn and mocks each twist and roll
While words unsesquipedalian curse thy Fates!
Now 'tis thy racked brain can't the thought control
Now thy lame feet won't go
curs'd in both states!

Take not poetic souls a word amiss:
I mean the unweaned spirits of the age
Male female epicoene--'tis all the rage
To write
the gentler sex all-licensed kiss
The Muse's hands one serving that one this
In lyric ode song pastoral
on the stage
In sock or buskin--lively sad gay sage
Strings of its own their lyre has which his
Proud man's still lacks. When many sequent rimes
As in the Sonnet most offend the ear
Or please as jangled or well rung the chimes
With bells each under other answering clear
Ring ye caesural pauses rhythmic times
Following sure lead well-chosen pioneer.

Off ye Mastodons Megalosauroi vast
And monstrous Nature's ruder tentatives
Her clumsier essays of which nought survives
But fossil-bones--dread nightmares of the Past
Which her less skilful hand in rude moulds cast
Then brake them
as a 'prentice tries and strives
Until the cunning of his hand arrives
At full perfection forms matured to last
--
Off to dark Night and Chaos! And instead
Come thou true creature of intelligence
Warm-blooded on Promethean fire fed
Born of Man's brain partaking of his sense
By Science out of Civilisation bred:
Mightier than these whom thou would'st drive from hence!

Were all these means and rich appliances
Meant merely to enable Man to make
More money not for the diviner sake
Of his immortal Being that through these
It might enlarge with spiritual increase!
Then could I wish that ye might ever wake
And watch and Mammon's wages only take
And make but gold who for it mar your peace--
These things were meant to give Man's soul more time
To look about it and unto the heights
Of spiritual Being oftener climb--
To bring with the reach of all delights
Confined yet to the few and give sublime
Direction to the Spirit's daily flight! 

The narrow senses over-ride Man's mind
And into circumscription put his Thought
Tie up the wings of th'Imagination caught
And birdlimed by the shows of things confined
Strike flat the Earth's rotundity and bind
Him down with countless threads by Custom wrought
Like Gulliver by Lilliputians caught
That seeing he sees not or but purblind.
Our senses serve us well
but when as here
They have no correspondence with true sight
'Tis like blind leading blind. Far o'er the clear
Calm sea a vessel's topmasts Thought invite
And the grand mirror convex doth appear
Not flat: thus Science may set Nature right.

O Science! proud Iconoclast thy way
Is strewed with fragments of our reverence
And love--idols with small or no pretence
Right oft upon their pedestals to stay
The light oft intercepting of God's day
E'en in His Temple! Light too pure intense
Which puts the eye out dazzles the weak sense
Of mere Humanity after its clay
Shaping its images. But take thou good heed
Thou dost not in self-blindness and self-pride
Pluck down the Temple's self and in its stead
And on its ruins strewed far and wide
Building as not for Living but True-dead
A cenotaph for Man's lost Soul provide!

O God! Thou openest thy hand and lo!
Like clustered diamonds regardlessly
Scattered therefrom the Pleiads gem the sky!
Stars countless at a wafture Thou dost throw
Along the Milky-Way their interflow
Of radiance a cloud of light: still high
And higher far and farther beyond eye
And telescope and thought itself they go!
As beyond sight Thy power is Infinite
So also in Infinitesimal.
In least as greatest great in depth as height.
The infinitely-small is only small
In term: Creation unto which the mite
Is huge for very smallness great we call!
Heat urges secret odors from the grass.
Blunting the edge of silence crickets shrill.
Wings veer: inane needles of light and pass.
Laced pools: the warm wood-shadows ebb and fill.
The wind is casual loitering to crush
The sun upon his palate and to draw
Pungence from pine frank fragrances from brush
Sucked up through thin grey boughs as through a straw.
Moss-green fern-green and leaf and meadow-green
Are broken by the bare bone-colored roads
Less moved by stirring air than by unseen
Soft-footed ants and meditative toads.
Summer is passing taking what she brings:
Green scents and sounds and quick ephemeral wings.
O choir of Tempe mute these many years
O fountain lutes of lyric Hippocrene
On whose polluted brink no Muse is seen.
No more between the gleaming vales one hears
Apollo's footfall or the sobbing tears
Of Daphne budding finger-tips of green.
No nymphs are bathing with their huntress Queen
In the warm shallows of the mountain meres.
Great Pan is dead: he perished long ago:
His reedy pipes these uplands never heard.
What trembling sounds from yonder coppice come?
Some ravished queen who tells the dale her woe?
Nay since the maids Pierian here are dumb
The nightingale is nothing but a bird.

I heard a Saint cry to the Sun--"Be dim.
Why shouldst thou rule on high with boastful ray
Till fools adore thee as the God of Day
Robbing thy master's honour due to him?"
But the sun-spirit thro' each radiant limb
Translucent as a living ember coal
Glowed. At the anger of the seraph soul
His golden orb trembled from boss to rim.
Then made he answer as a dove that sings
"God's glory is my glory and my praise
Only his praising. They who kneel to me
See thro' the waving of my orient wings
A choir of stars with voices like the sea
Singing hosanna in the heavenly ways."

In ruling well what guerdon? Life runs low
As yonder lamp upon the hour-glass lies
Waning and wasted. We are great and wise
But Love is gone
and Silence seems to grow
Along the misty road where we must go.
From summits near the morning star's uprise
Death comes a shadow from the northern skies
As when all leaves are down there comes the snow.
Brother and King we hold our last carouse.
One loving-cup we drain and then farewell.
The night is spent: the crystal morning ray
Calls us as soldiers laurell'd on our brows
To march undaunted while the clarions swell
Heroic hearts upon our lonely way.
Nor for their beauty do I love the hills
Of which I sing--fair though the features seem
Bath'd in the splendour of the morning's beam
Or clad in that soft witchery that fills
Each glen at gloaming
not for this the rills
Are more to me than any classic stream
That ever Poet chose him for a theme
--
A sweeter reason all my being thrills!
They are my own! the much-lov'd hills of home!
Not with that earthly ownership which looks
For rent and taxes
but because the brooks
The braes the glens all--all--where'er I roam
Have voices sounding in the lonely wild
That call me as a mother calls her child.
I saw the object of my pining thought
Within a garden of sweet nature's placing
Wherein an arbor artificial wrought
By workman's wondrous skill the garden gracing
Did boast his glory glory far renowned
For in his shady boughs my mistress slept
And with a garland of his branches crowned
Her dainty forehead from the sun ykept.
Imperious love upon her eyelids tending
Playing his wanton sports at every beck
And into every finest limb descending
From eyes to lips from lips to ivory neck
And every limb supplied and t'every part
Had free access but durst not touch her heart.

Each tree did boast the wishd spring-time's pride
When solitary in the vale of love
I hid myself so from the world to hide
The uncouth passions which my heart did prove
No tree whose branches did not bravely spring
No branch whereon a fine bird did not sit
No bird but did her shrill notes sweetly sing
No song but did contain a lovely dit.
Trees branches birds and songs were framd fair
Fit to allure frail mind to careless ease
But careful was my thought yet in despair
I dwelt for brittle hope me cannot please.
For when I view my love's fair eyes' reflecting
I entertain despair vain hope rejecting. 

In clouds she shines and so obscurely shineth
That like a mastless ship at seas I wander
For want of her to guide my heart that pineth
Yet can I not entreat ne yet command her.
So am I tied in labyrinths of fancy
In dark and obscure labyrinths of love
That every one may plain behold that can see
How I am fettered and what pains I prove.
The lamp whose light should lead my ship about
Is placed upon my mistress' heavenly face
Her hand doth hold the clew must lead me out
And free my heart from thraldom's loathd place
But clew to lead my out or lamp to light me
She scornfully denied--the more to spite me.
When she whose love is even my air of life
Enters delay being past to bless my home
And ousts her phantom from its place being come
Herself to fill it
when the importunate strife
Of absence with desire is stilled and rife
With heaven is earth
why am I stricken dumb
Abashed confounded awed of heart and numb
Waking to no triumph of song no welcoming fife?
Be thine own answer soul who long ago
Did'st see the awful light of Beauty shine
Silent
and silently rememberest yet
That glory which no spirit may forget
Nor utter save in love a thought too fine
For souls to ignore or mortal sense to know. 

As hills seem Alps when veiled in misty shroud
Some men seem kings through mists of ignorance
Must we have darkness then and cloud on cloud
To give our hills and pigmy kings a chance?
Must we conspire to curse the humbling light
Lest some one at whose feet our fathers bowed
Should suddenly appear full length in sight
Scaring to laughter the adoring crowd?
Oh no! God send us light!--Who loses then?
The king of slaves and not the king of men.
True kings are kings for ever crowned of God
The King of kings--we need not fear for them.
'Tis only the usurper's diadem
That shakes at touch of light revealing fraud.

God help the man who mortgages his life
For patriot dues! Henceforward he is safe
No more. His noblest virtues only chafe
The hydra that he serves to lust of strife.
His self-respect his every social tie
All that for which the world's best heroes fight
Must be surrendered or unless he die
He is a slave--mayhap a despot slave
Like Dionysius fearful of the light
Or Belisarius begging to his grave
Through streets o'er which his conquering banners wave.
And his reward--to have poor poets sigh
Above his dust the requiem of the brave.

If Homer ne'er had sung
if Socrates
Had never lived in virtue's cause to die
If the wild chorus of the circling seas
Had never echoed back poor Sappho's sigh
If Sparta had not with the purest blood
Traced on all time the name "Thermopyl"
If Greece united through the surging flood
Of Persian pride had not arisen free
If nought of great or wise or brave or good
Had proved thee Hellas what thou wast to be
Save that thou didst create "Antigone"--
Thou still had'st in the van of nations stood.
Fallen are thy noblest temples but above
Them all still stands thy shrine of Woman's Love.

Out of the ground I rose
the seed seemed dead
But lo! a slim green arm pushed through the sod
And by and by before my maker God
I stood full ripe. A voice cried: "Give us bread."
The wind of God went by
I bowed my head
And one approached who held a curvd knife
And for the life of men he took my life
And ever since by me are millions fed.
And then God spake these words: "O blessed weed
The lowly sister of the lily proud
Be thou my chosen messenger to shroud
The mystery of my Son the Woman's seed.
Thou dreadest not the sacrificial knife--
Be thou to dying men the Bread of Life.

The years through which aught that hath life O Sun
Hath watched or felt thy rising what are they
To those vast ons when from night to day
From dawn to dark thy circuit thou didst run
With none to greet thee or regret thee
none
To bless thy glowing harbinger of cloud
Rose-tinted
none to sigh when like a shroud
The banner of Night proclaimed her victory won?
Yet through that reign of seeming death so long
To our imperfect ken the marvellous force
Which means to ends adjusts in Nature's plan
Was bringing to the birth that eye of man
Which now O Sun surveys thy farthest course--
A speck amid the countless starry throng.

Has aught been changed or is there any more
To tell of what the human heart can feel?
Or is there any phase of woe or weal
That has not been a thousand times before?
We live the life our fathers lived of yore--
Our loves our hates our longings are the same
Our creeds have little changed except in name
And our wise books repeat the ancient lore.
The men who walked in Babylon's proud streets
Were just such men as walk our streets today
And the fair maid who blushes as she meets
Her lover such as she far far away
Long long ago (oft has the tale been told)
Was many a sweet fair maid who lived of old.

A link-boy once Dick Hellfinch stood the grin
At Charing Cross he long his bawling plied
"Here light here light your honour for a win"
To every cull and drab he loudly cried.
In Leicester Fields as most his story know
"Come black your worship for a single mag"
And while he shined his Nelly sacked the bag
And thus they sometimes stagged a precious go
In Smithfields too where graziers oft resort
Dick loitered there to take in men of cash
With cards and dice was up to every sport
And at Salt Petre Bank would cut a dash
At every knowing rig in every gang
Dick Hellfinch was the pink of all the slang.

Behind such varioius vesture of strange dreams
Abides my soul I know not its true form
Nor have I faith it is the thing it seems--
Now hushed in calm now crying of the storm.
Forevermore the dreams are as a veil
Of strangely-wrought enchantment to my ken
Wherethrough my soul's eyes make my being quail
Or bid me wanton with my joys again.
I have no knowledge of the thing it is
Whether it be of fiend or angel born
This much I know beloved only this:
Beneath thy touch of all its power shorn
It yields glad captive to the joy that lies
Sweet on thy ruining lips and laughing eyes.

To drift with every passion till my soul
Is a stringed lute on which all winds can play
Is it for this that I have given away
Mine ancient wisdom and austere control?
Methinks my life is a twice-written scroll
Scrawled over on some boyish holiday
With idle songs for pipe and virelay
Which do but mar the secret of the whole.
Surely there was a time I might have trod
The sunlit heights and from life's dissonance
Struck one clear chord to reach the ears of God:
Is that time dead? Lo with a little rod
I did but touch the honey of romance--
And must I lose a soul's inheritance? 

Come down O Christ and help me! reach thy hand
For I am drowning in a stormier sea
Than Simon on thy lake of Galilee:
The wine of life is spilt upon the sand
My heart is as some famine-murdered land
Whence all good things have perished utterly
And well I know my soul in Hell must lie
If I this night before God's throne should stand.
"He sleeps perchance or rideth to the chase
Like Baal when his prophets howled that name
From morn to noon on Carmel's smitten height."
Nay peace I shall behold before the night
The feet of brass the robe more white than flame
The wounded hands the weary human face.

Rid of the world's injustice and his pain
He rests at last beneath God's veil of blue
Taken from life when life and love were new
The youngest of the martyrs here is lain
Fair as Sebastian and as early slain.
No cypress shades his grave no funeral yew
But gentle violets weeping with the dew
Weave on his bones an ever-blossoming chain.
O proudest heart that broke for misery!
O sweetest lips since those of Mitylene!
O poet-painter of our English Land!
Thy name was writ in water--it shall stand
And tears like mine will keep thy memory green
As Isabella did her Basil-tree.

With outstretched whirring wings of van-dyked jet
Two crows one day o'er house and pavement passed.
Swift silhouettes limned 'gainst the blue they glassed
Smooth beak and ebon feather in the wet
Of gaping pool and gutter while beset
By nestward longing high their hoarse cry cast
In the face of fickle sun and treacherous blast
Till all the City smelt of violet.
Then through that City quick the news did run.
Great wheels were slacken'd
belts were stopped in mill
And fires in forges. Long ere set of sun
Dazed men pale women sought the open hill--
They throng'd the streets. They caught the clarion cry--
"Spring has come back--trust Spring to never die!" 

Strange that no idol hath been roughly wrought
Or fairly carven bearing on its base
A name so potent! Strange no ancient race
Workers in whitest Parian ever sought
To reproduce thy beauty slyly fraught
With vast suggestion! Strange thou couldst not brace
The dull Assyrian didst not tempt from chase
Trophy and battle the sons of literal thought.
We who are tired of gods must yet to thee
Render allegiance. Chance and Love are blind
And Cause is soulless Art is deaf and vain
All unavailing looms the God of Pain.
Disclaiming these we choose with prescient mind
The unknown God of Opportunity.
You must not wonder though you think it strange
To see me hold my lowering head so low
And that mine eyes take no delight to range
About the gleams which on your face do grow.
The mouse which once hath broken out of trap
Is seldom teased with the trustless bait
But lies aloof for fear of more mishap
And feedeth still in doubt of deep deceit.
The scorched fly which once hath 'scap'd the flame
Will hardly come to play again with fire.
Whereby I learn that grievous is the game
Which follows fancy dazzled by desire.
So that I wink or else hold down my head
Because your blazing eyes my bale have bred.
Sometimes when all the world seems gray and dun
And nothing beautiful a voice will cry
"Look out look out! Angels are drawing nigh!"
Then my slow burdens leave me one by one
And swiftly does my heart arise and run
Even like a child while loveliness goes by--
And common folk seem children of the sky
And common things seem shapd of the sun.
Oh pitiful! that I who love them must
So soon perceive their shining garments fade!
And slowly slowly from my eyes of trust
Their flaming banners sink into a shade!
While this earth's sunshine seems the golden dust
Slow settling from that radiant cavalcade.

Fatigue itself may be a pleasant thing
And weariness be silken soft and fine!
Upon my eyes its little vapors shine
Trailing me softly like a colored wing!
Tender as when belovd voices sing
It steals upon me and with touch divine
Lulls all my senses till each thought of mine
Is hushed to quiet unremembering.
Oh weariness thrice dear so frailly spun
Of ended pleasure that still shines and glows
Oh weariness thrice dear! What have I done
To earn this delicate and deep repose?
Child thou hast worshiped at the setting sun
And looked long long upon the opening rose.

Wounded am I yet happier--happier far
Than they who have not felt the precious sting!
Poor feet that bleed not with this wandering!
Poor hands that burn not plucking at a star!
Poor hearts unblessed and whole! I bear the scar
Of a too piercing loveliness. The thing
Hung out of reach I touched and now I sing
Mad with delight more blessed than others are.
For since the blushing and ethereal hour
When loveliness upon my heart was born
When I was stricken by her magic power
I run--I run--wild ecstasied forlorn
For beauty when I go to pluck her flower
Pierces my willing bosom with a thorn.

When I am weary for delight and spent
Even as a bird that tries too long its wings
Will nest awhile amid the grass and sings
So I drop downward from the wonderment
Of timelessness and space in which were blent
The wind the sunshine and the wanderings
Of all the planets--to the little things
That are my grass and flowers and am content.
Or if in flight my wings should beat so far
From the kind grass that is so cool and deep
That it must poise among the winds on high--
Yet will I sing to thee from star to star
Piercing thy sunshine and will always keep
A song for thee amid the farthest sky.

When I before the altars of repose
Invited Slumber she refused to stay
But with a broken heart she turned away
Astonished quite. Among the flaunting shows
That circled round she perished like a rose
Cast among flames. Oh bring her back--I pray!
Then sternly to my heart a voice said "Nay
Thou canst not have her--tearfully she goes."
God might not join us--for gorgeous bright
Adorned conspicuous sure without disguise
Strangely illumined with derisive light
They danced -- they danced! Oh then I was made wise!
My foolish deeds flaming before my eyes
Denied me slumber all the livelong night. 

When with her clouds the early dawn illumes
Our doubtful streets wistful they grow and mild
As if a sleeping soul grew happy and smiled
The whole dark city radiantly blooms.
Pale spires lift their hands above the glooms
Like a resurrection delicately wild
And flushed with slumber like a little child
Under a mist shines forth the innocent Tombs.
Thus have I seen it from a casement high.
As unsubstantial as a dream it grows.
Is this Manhattan virginal and shy
That in a cloud so rapturously glows?
Ethereal frail and like an opening rose
I see my city with an enlightened eye. 

Has he no country? Is he of alien breed?
Is this land not his home? Oh exiled one!
Stranger to his own kind where does he run?
How he has shamed us for the world to read!
Oh carrion prowling where this people bleed
Grown fat upon disaster hide from the sun!
A scornful nation asks what has he done
With the public trust the honor and the need.
Not him with glorious hand will we indite
Patriot Statesman in the Hall of Fame
Nor will we let him flee into the night
Of safe oblivion! But oh--that name
For our sons' sons a moving hand shall write
In scarlet letters on the walls of Shame.

Shame on thee O Manhattan whom I love!
And shame on me that I have slept away
So many years while thy feet went astray!
O Thou--that should'st be white as any dove
Thou Scarlet Woman! Is there no voice to move--
No hand to smite us? Even for this I pray--
Some terrible scourging that we have let the day
Darken around us while we saw thee rove.
Last night I heard thee cry. Thy wandering feet
Went bleeding by me. On thy ruined breast
I saw thee nurse a feeding child of flame!
Desolate gorgeous frantic along the street!
Ah how I blushed in the dark that through my rest
I felt the burning garments of thy shame. 

This day into the fields my steps are led.
I cannot heal me there! Row after row
Thousands of daisies radiantly blow.
They have not brought from Heaven my daily bread!
But they are like a prayer too often said.
I have forgot their meaning and I go
From the cold rubric of their gold and snow
And the calm ritual all uncomforted.
I want the faces! faces! remote and pale
That surge along the city streets! The flood
Of reckless ones haggard and spent and frail
Excited hungry! In this other mood
'T is not the words of the faith for which I ail
But to plunge in the fountain of its living blood.

When He returns and finds all sleeping here--
Some old some young some fair and some not fair
Will He stoop down and whisper in each ear
"Awaken!" or for pity's sake forbear--
Saying "How shall I meet their frozen stare
Of wonder and their eyes so woebegone?
How shall I comfort them in their despair
If they cry out 'too late! let us sleep on'?"
Perchance He will not wake us up but when
He sees us look so happy in our rest
Will murmur "Poor dead women and dead men!
Dire was their doom and weary was their quest.
Wherefore awake them unto life again?
Let them sleep on untroubled--it is best."

O Rainbow Rainbow! on the livid height
Softening its ashen outline into dream
Dewy yet brilliant delicately bright
As pink wild-roses' leaves why dost thou gleam
So beckoningly? whom dost thou invite
Still higher upward on the bitter quest?
What dost thou promise to the weary sight
In that strange region whence thou issuest?
Speak'st thou of pensive runlets by whose side
Our dear ones wander sweet and gentle-eyed
In the soft dawn of a diviner Day?
Art thou a promise? Come those hues and dyes
From heavenly meads near which thou dost arise
Iris'd from Quiet Waters far away? 

I thought once how Theocritus had sung
Of the sweet years the dear and wished for years
Who each one in a gracious hand appears
To bear a gift for mortals old or young:
And as I mused it in his antique tongue
I saw in gradual vision through my tears
The sweet sad years the melancholy years
Those of my own life who by turns had flung
A shadow across me. Straightway I was 'ware
So weeping how a mystic Shape did move
Behind me and drew me backward by the hair
And a voice said in mastery while I strove
"Guess now who holds thee ?" - "Death" I said. But there
The silver answer rang--"Not Death but Love."

But only three in all God's universe
Have heard this word thou hast said--Himself beside
Thee speaking and me listening! and replied
One of us . . . that was God . . and laid the curse
So darkly on my eyelids as to amerce
My sight from seeing thee--that if I had died
The deathweights placed there would have signified
Less absolute exclusion. "Nay" is worse
From God than from all others O my friend!
Men could not part us with their worldly jars
Nor the seas change us nor the tempests bend
Our hands would touch for all the mountain-bars:
And heaven being rolled between us at the end
We should but vow the faster for the stars.

Unlike are we unlike O princely Heart!
Unlike our uses and our destinies.
Our ministering two angels look surprise
On one another as they strike athwart
Their wings in passing. Thou bethink thee art
A guest for queens to social pageantries
With gages from a hundred brighter eyes
Than tears even can make mine to play thy part
Of chief musician. What hast thou to do
With looking from the lattice-lights at me
A poor tired wandering singer singing through
The dark and leaning up a cypress tree?
The chrism is on thine head--on mine the dew--
And Death must dig the level where these agree.

Thou hast thy calling to some palace-floor
Most gracious singer of high poems! where
The dancers will break footing from the care
Of watching up thy pregnant lips for more.
And dost thou lift this house's latch too poor
For hand of thine? and canst thou think and bear
To let thy music drop here unaware
In folds of golden fulness at my door?
Look up and see the casement broken in
The bats and owlets builders in the roof!
My cricket chirps against thy mandolin.
Hush call no echo up in further proof
Of desolation! there's a voice within
That weeps . . as thou must sing . . . alone aloof.

I lift my heavy heart up solemnly
As once Electra her sepulchral urn
And looking in thine eyes I overturn
The ashes at thy feet. Behold and see
What a great heap of grief lay hid in me
And how the red wild sparkles dimly burn
Through the ashen greyness. If thy foot in scorn
Could tread them out to darkness utterly
It might be well perhaps. But if instead
Thou wait beside me for the wind to blow
The grey dust up . . . those laurels on thine head
O my Belovd will not shield thee so
That none of all the fires shall scorch and shred
The hair beneath. Stand farther off then! go.

Go from me. Yet I feel that I shall stand
Henceforward in thy shadow. Nevermore
Alone upon the threshold of my door
Of individual life I shall command
The uses of my soul nor lift my hand
Serenely in the sunshine as before
Without the sense of that which I forbore--
Thy touch upon the palm. The widest land
Doom takes to part us leaves thy heart in mine
With pulses that beat double. What I do
And what I dream include thee as the wine
Must taste of its own grapes. And when I sue
God for myself He hears that name of thine
And sees within my eyes the tears of two.

The face of all the world is changed I think
Since first I heard the footsteps of thy soul
Move still oh still beside me as they stole
Betwixt me and the dreadful outer brink
Of obvious death where I who thought to sink
Was caught up into love and taught the whole
Of life in a new rhythm. The cup of dole
God gave for baptism I am fain to drink
And praise its sweetness Sweet with thee anear.
The names of country heaven are changed away
For where thou art or shalt be there or here
And this . . . this lute and song . . . loved yesterday
(The singing angels know) are only dear
Because thy name moves right in what they say.

What can I give thee back O liberal
And princely giver who hast brought the gold
And purple of thine heart unstained untold
And laid them on the outside of the wall
For such as I to take or leave withal
In unexpected largesse? am I cold
Ungrateful that for these most manifold
High gifts I render nothing back at all?
Not so
not cold--but very poor instead.
Ask God who knows. For frequent tears have run
The colours from my life and left so dead
And pale a stuff it were not fitly done
To give the same as pillow to thy head.
Go farther! let it serve to trample on.

Can it be right to give what I can give?
To let thee sit beneath the fall of tears
As salt as mine and hear the sighing years
Re-sighing on my lips renunciative
Through those infrequent smiles which fail to live
For all thy adjurations? O my fears
That this can scarce be right! We are not peers
So to be lovers
and I own and grieve
That givers of such gifts as mine are must
Be counted with the ungenerous. Out alas!
I will not soil thy purple with my dust
Nor breathe my poison on thy Venice-glass
Nor give thee any love--which were unjust.
Beloved I only love thee! let it pass.

Yet love mere love is beautiful indeed
And worthy of acceptation. Fire is bright
Let temple burn or flax
an equal light
Leaps in the flame from cedar-plank or weed:
And love is fire. And when I say at need
I love thee . . . mark! . . . I love thee--in thy sight
I stand transfigured glorified aright
With conscience of the new rays that proceed
Out of my face toward thine. There's nothing low
In love when love the lowest: meanest creatures
Who love God God accepts while loving so.
And what I feel across the inferior features
Of what I am doth flash itself and show
How that great work of Love enhances Nature's.

And therefore if to love can be desert
I am not all unworthy. Cheeks as pale
As these you see and trembling knees that fail
To bear the burden of a heavy heart--
This weary minstrel-life that once was girt
To climb Aornus and can scarce avail
To pipe now 'gainst the valley nightingale
A melancholy music--why advert
To these things? O Belovd it is plain
I am not of thy worth nor for thy place!
And yet because I love thee I obtain
From that same love this vindicating grace
To live on still in love and yet in vain--
To bless thee yet renounce thee to thy face.

Indeed this very love which is my boast
And which when rising up from breast to brow
Doth crown me with a ruby large enow
To draw men's eyes and prove the inner cost--
This love even all my worth to the uttermost
I should not love withal unless that thou
Hadst set me an example shown me how
When first thine earnest eyes with mine were crossed
And love called love. And thus I cannot speak
Of love even as a good thing of my own:
Thy soul hath snatched up mine all faint and weak
And placed it by thee on a golden throne
And that I love (O soul we must be meek!)
Is by thee only whom I love alone.

And wilt thou have me fashion into speech
The love I bear thee finding words enough
And hold the torch out while the winds are rough
Between our faces to cast light on each?--
I drop at thy feet. I cannot teach
My hand to hold my spirit so far off
From myself--me--that I should bring thee proof
In words of love hid in me out of reach.
Nay let the silence of my womanhood
Commend my woman-love to thy belief--
Seeing that I stand unwon however wooed
And rend the garment of my life in brief
By a most dauntless voiceless fortitude
Lest one touch of this heart convey its grief.

If thou must love me let it be for nought
Except for love's sake only. Do not say
"I love her for her smile--her look--her way
Of speaking gently--for a trick of thought
That falls in well with mine and certes brought
A sense of pleasant ease on such a day"--
For these things in themselves Beloved may
Be changed or change for thee--and love so wrought
May be unwrought so. Neither love me for
Thine own dear pity's wiping my cheeks dry--
A creature might forget to weep who bore
Thy comfort long and lose thy love thereby!
But love me for love's sake that evermore
Thou mayst love on through love's eternity.

Accuse me not beseech thee that I wear
Too calm and sad a face in front of thine
For we two look two ways and cannot shine
With the same sunlight on our brow and hair.
On me thou lookest with no doubting care
As on a bee shut in a crystalline
Since sorrow hath shut me safe in love's divine
And to spread wing and fly in the outer air
Were most impossible failure if I strove
To fail so. But I look on thee--on thee--
Beholding besides love the end of love
Hearing oblivion beyond memory!
As one who sits and gazes from above
Over the rivers to the bitter sea.

And yet because thou overcomest so
Because thou art more noble and like a king
Thou canst prevail against my fears and fling
Thy purple round me till my heart shall grow
Too close against thine heart henceforth to know
How it shook when alone. Why conquering
May prove as lordly and complete a thing
In lifting upward as in crushing low!
And as a vanquished soldier yields his sword
To one who lifts him from the bloody earth--
Even so Belovd I at last record
Here ends my strife. If thou invite me forth
I rise above abasement at the word.
Make thy love larger to enlarge my worth.

My poet thou canst touch on all the notes
God set between His After and Before
And strike up and strike off the general roar
Of the rushing worlds a melody that floats
In a serene air purely. Antidotes
Of medicated music answering for
Mankind's forlornest uses thou canst pour
From thence into their ears. God's will devotes
Thine to such ends and mine to wait on thine.
How Dearest wilt thou have me for most use?
A hope to sing by gladly? or a fine
Sad memory with thy songs to interfuse?
A shade in which to sing--of palm or pine?
A grave on which to rest from singing? Choose.

I never gave a lock of hair away
To a man dearest except this to thee
Which now upon my fingers thoughtfully
I ring out to the full brown length and say
"Take it." My day of youth went yesterday
My hair no longer bounds to my foot's glee
Nor plant I it from rose or myrtle-tree
As girls do any more: it only may
Now shade on two pale cheeks the mark of tears
Taught drooping from the head that hangs aside
Through sorrow's trick. I thought the funeral-shears
Would take this first but Love is justified--
Take it thou--finding pure from all those years
The kiss my mother left here when she died.

The soul's Rialto hath its merchandise
I barter curl for curl upon that mart
And from my poet's forehead to my heart
Receive this lock which outweighs argosies--
As purply black as erst to Pindar's eyes
The dim purpureal tresses gloomed athwart
The nine white Muse-brows. For this counterpart...
The bay-crown's shade Belovd I surmise
Still lingers on thy curl it is so black!
Thus with a fillet of smooth-kissing breath
I tie the shadows safe from gliding back
And lay the gift where nothing hindereth
Here on my heart as on thy brow to lack
No natural heat till mine grows cold in death.

Belovd my Belovd when I think
That thou wast in the world a year ago
What time I sat alone here in the snow
And saw no footprint heard the silence sink
No moment at thy voice but link by link
Went counting all my chains as if that so
They never could fall off at any blow
Struck by thy possible hand--why thus I drink
Of life's great cup of wonder! Wonderful
Never to feel thee thrill the day or night
With personal act or speech--nor ever cull
Some prescience of thee with the blossoms white
Thou sawest growing! Atheists are as dull
Who cannot guess God's presence out of sight.

Say over again and yet once over again
That thou dost love me. Though the word repeated
Should seem "a cuckoo-song" as thou dost treat it
Remember never to the hill or plain
Valley and wood without her cuckoo-strain
Comes the fresh Spring in all her green completed.
Belovd I amid the darkness greeted
By a doubtful spirit-voice in that doubt's pain
Cry "Speak once more--thou lovest!" Who can fear
Too many stars though each in heaven shall roll
Too many flowers though each shall crown the year?
Say thou dost love me love me love me--toll
The silver iterance!--only minding Dear
To love me also in silence with thy soul.

When our two souls stand up erect and strong
Face to face silent drawing nigh and nigher
Until the lengthening wings break into fire
At either curvd point--what bitter wrong
Can the earth do to us that we should not long
Be here contented? Think. In mounting higher
The angels would press on us and aspire
To drop some golden orb of perfect song
Into our deep dear silence. Let us stay
Rather on earth Belovd--where the unfit
Contrarious moods of men recoil away
And isolate pure spirits and permit
A place to stand and love in for a day
With darkness and the death-hour rounding it.

Is it indeed so? If I lay here dead
Wouldst thou miss any life in losing mine?
And would the sun for thee more coldly shine
Because of grave-damps falling round my head?
I marvelled my Belovd when I read
Thy thought so in the letter. I am thine--
But . . . so much to thee? Can I pour thy wine
While my hands tremble? Then my soul instead
Of dreams of death resumes life's lower range.
Then love me Love! Look on me--breathe on me!
As brighter ladies do not count it strange
For love to give up acres and degree
I yield the grave for thy sake and exchange
My near sweet view of Heaven for earth with thee!

Let the world's sharpness like a clasping knife
Shut in upon itself and do no harm
In this close hand of Love now soft and warm
And let us hear no sound of human strife
After the click of the shutting. Life to life--
I lean upon thee dear without alarm
And feel as safe as guarded by a charm
Against the stab of worldlings who if rife
Are weak to injure. Very whitely still
The lilies of our lives may reassure
Their blossoms from their roots accessible
Alone to heavenly dews that drop not fewer
Growing straight out of man's reach on the hill.
God only who made us rich can make us poor.

A heavy heart Belovd have I borne
From year to year until I saw thy face
And sorrow after sorrow took the place
Of all those natural joys as lightly worn
As the stringed pearls each lifted in its turn
By a beating heart at dance-time. Hopes apace
Were changed to long despairs till God's own grace
Could scarcely lift above the world forlorn
My heavy heart. Then thou didst bid me bring
And let it drop adown thy calmly great
Deep being! Fast it sinketh as a thing
Which its own nature doth precipitate
While thine doth close above it mediating
Betwixt the stars and the unaccomplished fate.

I lived with visions for my company
Instead of men and women years ago
And found them gentle mates nor thought to know
A sweeter music than they played to me.
But soon their trailing purple was not free
Of this world's dust their lutes did silent grow
And I myself grew faint and blind below
Their vanishing eyes. Then THOU didst come--to be
Belovd what they seemed. Their shining fronts
Their songs their splendours (better yet the same
As river-water hallowed into fonts)
Met in thee and from out thee overcame
My soul with satisfaction of all wants
Because God's gifts put man's best dreams to shame.

My own Belovd who hast lifted me
From this drear flat of earth where I was thrown
And in betwixt the languid ringlets blown
A life-breath till the forehead hopefully
Shines out again as all the angels see
Before thy saving kiss! My own my own
Who camest to me when the world was gone
And I who looked for only God found thee!
I find thee
I am safe and strong and glad.
As one who stands in dewless asphodel
Looks backward on the tedious time he had
In the upper life--so I with bosom-swell
Make witness here between the good and bad
That Love as strong as Death retrieves as well.

My letters! all dead paper mute and white!
And yet they seem alive and quivering
Against my tremulous hands which loose the string
And let them drop down on my knee to-night
This said--he wished to have me in his sight
Once as a friend: this fixed a day in spring
To come and touch my hand ... a simple thing
Yet I wept for it!--this ... the paper's light...
Said Dear I love thee
and I sank and quailed
As if God's future thundered on my past.
This said I am thine--and so its ink has paled
With lying at my heart that beat too fast.
And this . . . O Love thy words have ill availed
If what this said I dared repeat at last!

I think of thee!--my thoughts do twine and bud
About thee as wild vines about a tree
Put out broad leaves and soon there's nought to see
Except the straggling green which hides the wood.
Yet O my palm-tree be it understood
I will not have my thoughts instead of thee
Who art dearer better! rather instantly
Renew thy presence. As a strong tree should
Rustle thy boughs and set thy trunk all bare
And let these bands of greenery which insphere thee
Drop heavily down--burst shattered everywhere!
Because in this deep joy to see and hear thee
And breathe within thy shadow a new air
I do not think of thee--I am too near thee.

I see thine image through my tears to-night
And yet to-day I saw thee smiling. How
Refer the cause?--Belovd is it thou
Or I who makes me sad? The acolyte
Amid the chanted joy and thankful rite
May so fall flat with pale insensate brow
On the altar-stair. I hear thy voice and vow
Perplexed uncertain since thou art out of sight
As he in his swooning ears the choir's amen.
Belovd dost thou love? or did I see all
The glory as I dreamed and fainted when
Too vehement light dilated my ideal
For my soul's eyes ? Will that light come again
As now these tears come--falling hot and real?

Thou comest! all is said without a word.
I sit beneath thy looks as children do
In the noon-sun with souls that tremble through
Their happy eyelids from an unaverred
Yet prodigal inward joy. Behold I erred
In that last doubt! and yet I cannot rue
The sin most but the occasion--that we two
Should for a moment stand unministered
By a mutual presence. Ah keep near and close
Thou dovelike help! and when my fears would rise
With thy broad heart serenely interpose:
Brood down with thy divine sufficiencies
These thoughts which tremble when bereft of those
Like callow birds left desert to the skies.

The first time that the sun rose on thine oath
To love me I looked forward to the moon
To slacken all those bonds which seemed too soon
And quickly tied to make a lasting troth.
Quick-loving hearts I thought may quickly loathe
And looking on myself I seemed not one
For such man's love!--more like an out-of-tune
Worn viol a good singer would be wroth
To spoil his song with and which snatched in haste
Is laid down at the first ill-sounding note.
I did not wrong myself so but I placed
A wrong on thee. For perfect strains may float
'Neath master-hands from instruments defaced--
And great souls at one stroke may do and dote. 

Yes call me by my pet-name! let me hear
The name I used to run at when a child
From innocent play and leave the cow-slips piled
To glance up in some face that proved me dear
With the look of its eyes. I miss the clear
Fond voices which being drawn and reconciled
Into the music of Heaven's undefiled
Call me no longer. Silence on the bier
While I call God--call God!--So let thy mouth
Be heir to those who are now exanimate.
Gather the north flowers to complete the south
And catch the early love up in the late.
Yes call me by that name--and I in truth
With the same heart will answer and not wait.

With the same heart I said I'll answer thee
As those when thou shalt call me by my name--
Lo the vain promise! is the same the same
Perplexed and ruffled by life's strategy?
When called before I told how hastily
I dropped my flowers or brake off from a game
To run and answer with the smile that came
At play last moment and went on with me
Through my obedience. When I answer now
I drop a grave thought break from solitude
Yet still my heart goes to thee--ponder how--
Not as to a single good but all my good--
Lay thy hand on it best one and allow
That no child's foot could run fast as this blood.

If I leave all for thee wilt thou exchange
And be all to me? Shall I never miss
Home-talk and blessing and the common kiss
That comes to each in turn nor count it strange
When I look up to drop on a new range
Of walls and floors another home than this?
Nay wilt thou fill that place by me which is
Filled by dead eyes too tender to know change?
That's hardest. If to conquer love has tried
To conquer grief tries more as all things prove
For grief indeed is love and grief beside.
Alas I have grieved so I am hard to love.
Yet love me--wilt thou? Open thine heart wide
And fold within the wet wings of thy dove.

When we met first and loved I did not build
Upon the event with marble. Could it mean
To last a love set pendulous between
Sorrow and sorrow? Nay I rather thrilled
Distrusting every light that seemed to gild
The onward path and feared to overlean
A finger even. And though I have grown serene
And strong since then I think that God has willed
A still renewable fear . . .O love O troth
Lest these enclaspd hands should never hold
This mutual kiss drop down between us both
As an unowned thing once the lips being cold.
And Love be false! if he to keep one oath
Must lose one joy by his life's star foretold.

Pardon oh pardon that my soul should make
Of all that strong divineness which I know
For thine and thee an image only so
Formed of the sand and fit to shift and break.
It is that distant years which did not take
Thy sovranty recoiling with a blow
Have forced my swimming brain to undergo
Their doubt and dread and blindly to forsake
The purity of likeness and distort
Thy worthiest love to a worthless counterfeit:
As if a shipwrecked Pagan safe in port
His guardian sea-god to commemorate
Should set a sculptured porpoise gills a-snort
And vibrant tail within the temple-gate.

First time he kissed me he but only kissed
The fingers of this hand wherewith I write
And ever since it grew more clean and white
Slow to world-greetings quick with its "Oh list"
When the angels speak. A ring of amethyst
I could not wear here plainer to my sight
Than that first kiss. The second passed in height
The first and sought the forehead and half missed
Half falling on the hair. O beyond meed!
That was the chrism of love which love's own crown
With sanctifying sweetness did precede.
The third upon my lips was folded down
In perfect purple state
since when indeed
I have been proud and said "My love my own."

Because thou hast the power and own'st the grace
To look through and behind this mask of me
(Against which years have beat thus blanchingly
With their rains) and behold my soul's true face
The dim and weary witness of life's race--
Because thou hast the faith and love to see
Through that same soul's distracting lethargy
The patient angel waiting for a place
In the new Heavens--because nor sin nor woe
Nor God's infliction nor death's neighbourhood
Nor all which others viewing turn to go
Nor all which makes me tired of all self-viewed--
Nothing repels thee . . . dearest teach me so
To pour out gratitude as thou dost good!

Oh yes! they love through all this world of ours!
I will not gainsay love called love forsooth.
I have heard love talked in my early youth
And since not so long back but that the flowers
Then gathered smell still. Mussulmans and Giaours
Throw kerchiefs at a smile and have no ruth
For any weeping. Polypheme's white tooth
Slips on the nut if after frequent showers
The shell is over-smooth--and not so much
Will turn the thing called love aside to hate
Or else to oblivion. But thou art not such
A lover my Belovd! thou canst wait
Through sorrow and sickness to bring souls to touch
And think it soon when others cry "Too late."

I thank all who have loved me in their hearts
With thanks and love from mine. Deep thanks to all
Who paused a little near the prison-wall
To hear my music in its louder parts
Ere they went onward each one to the mart's
Or temple's occupation beyond call.
But thou who in my voice's sink and fall
When the sob took it thy divinest Art's
Own instrument didst drop down at thy foot
To hearken what I said between my tears--
Instruct me how to thank thee! Oh to shoot
My soul's full meaning into future years
That they should lend it utterance and salute
Love that endures from Life that disappears!

"My future will not copy fair my past"--
I wrote that once
and thinking at my side
My ministering life-angel justified
The word by his appealing look upcast
To the white throne of God I turned at last
And there instead saw thee not unallied
To angels in thy soul! Then I long tried
By natural ills received the comfort fast
While budding at thy sight my pilgrim's staff
Gave out green leaves with morning dews impearled.
I seek no copy now of life's first half:
Leave here the pages with long musing curled
And write me new my future's epigraph
New angel mine unhoped for in the world!

How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.
I love thee to the depth and breadth and height
My soul can reach when feeling out of sight
For the ends of Being and ideal Grace.
I love thee to the level of everyday's
Most quiet need by sun and candle-light.
I love thee freely as men strive for Right
I love thee purely as they turn from Praise.
I love thee with the passion put to use
In my old griefs and with my childhood's faith.
I love thee with a love I seemed to lose
With my lost saints--I love thee with the breath
Smiles tears of all my life!--and if God choose
I shall but love thee better after death.

Belovd thou hast brought me many flowers
Plucked in the garden all the summer through
And winter and it seemed as if they grew
In this close room nor missed the sun and showers.
So in the like name of that love of ours
Take back these thoughts which here unfolded too
And which on warm and cold days I withdrew
From my heart's ground. Indeed those beds and bowers
Be overgrown with bitter weeds and rue
And wait thy weeding
yet here's eglantine
Here's ivy!--take them as I used to do
Thy flowers and keep them where they shall not pine.
Instruct thine eyes to keep their colours true
And tell thy soul their roots are left in mine.

I tell you hopeless grief is passionless
That only men incredulous of despair
Half-taught in anguish through the midnight air
Beat upward to God's throne in loud access
Of shrieking and reproach. Full desertness
In souls as countries lieth silent-bare
Under the blanching vertical eye-glare
Of the absolute Heavens. Deep-hearted man express
Grief for thy Dead in silence like to death--
Most like a monumental statue set
In everlasting watch and moveless woe
Till itself crumble to the dust beneath.
Touch it
the marble eyelids are not wet:
If it could weep it could arise and go. 

EXPERIENCE like a pale musician holds
A dulcimer of patience in his hand
Whence harmonies we cannot understand
Of God will in his worlds the strain unfolds
In sad-perplexed minors: deathly colds
Fall on us while we hear and countermand
Our sanguine heart back from the fancyland
With nightingales in visionary wolds.
We murmur 'Where is any certain tune
Or measured music in such notes as these?'
But angels leaning from the golden seat
Are not so minded their fine ear hath won
The issue of completed cadences
And smiling down the stars they whisper--SWEET.

Wordsworth upon Helvellyn! Let the cloud
Ebb audibly along the mountain-wind
Then break against the rock and show behind
The lowland valleys floating up to crowd
The sense with beauty. He with forehead bowed
And humble-lidded eyes as one inclined
Before the sovran thought of his own mind
And very meek with inspirations proud
Takes here his rightful place as poet-priest
By the high altar singing prayer and prayer.
To the higher Heavens. A noble vision free
Our Haydon's hand has flung out from the mist:
No portrait this with Academic air!
This is the poet and his poetry. 

Thou large-brained woman and large-hearted man
Self-called George Sand! whose soul amid the lions
Of thy tumultuous senses moans defiance
And answers roar for roar as spirits can:
I would some mild miraculous thunder ran
Above the applauded circus in appliance
Of thine own nobler nature's strength and science
Drawing two pinions white as wings of swan
From thy strong shoulders to amaze the place
With holier light! that thou to woman's claim
And man's mightst join beside the angel's grace
Of a pure genius sanctified from blame
Till child and maiden pressed to thine embrace
To kiss upon thy lips a stainless fame.

True genius but true woman! dost deny
The woman's nature with a manly scorn
And break away the gauds and armlets worn
By weaker women in captivity?
Ah vain denial! that revolted cry
Is sobbed in by a woman's voice forlorn
Thy woman's hair my sister all unshorn
Floats back dishevelled strength in agony
Disproving thy man's name: and while before
The world thou burnest in a poet-fire
We see thy woman-heart beat evermore
Through the large flame. Beat purer heart and higher
Till God unsex thee on the heavenly shore
Where unincarnate spirits purely aspire!
When I shall die--and be it late or soon--
Let merciful memories be my only shroud.

Think me a light veiled in a morning cloud
Living to knowledge--like a finished moon
Though nothing here to other lands a boon:
Nor let my death give triumph to the proud
By your weak tears: be happy with the crowd
Who spite of woe are seldom out of tune.
Wise in the common instinct be ye glad:
There's some redemption in the doom of death
That cuts us from new sins--sweet mercy's plan.
Yet if for me you be sincerely sad
Do this sweet homage to my valued breath--
Ease the sad burden of some living man!
I dreamed of him last night I saw his face
All radiant and unshadowed of distress
And as of old in music measureless
I heard his golden voice and marked him trace
Under the common thing the hidden grace
And conjure wonder out of emptiness
Till mean things put on beauty like a dress
And all the world was an enchanted place.
And then methought outside a fast locked gate
I mourned the loss of unrecorded words
Forgotten tales and mysteries half said
Wonders that might have been articulate
And voiceless thoughts like murdered singing birds.
And so I woke and knew that he was dead. 

Not all the singers of a thousand years
Can open English prisons. No. Though hell
Opened for Tracian Orpheus now the spell
Of song and art is powerless as the tears
That love has shed. You that were full of fears
And mean self-love shall live to know full well
That you yourselves not he were pitiable
When you met mercy's voice with frowns or jeers.
And did you ask who signed the plea with you?
Fools! It was signed already with the sign
Of great dead men of God-like Socrates
Shakespeare and Plato and the Florentine
Who conquered form. And all your pretty crew
Once and once only might have stood with these. 

See what a mass of gems the city wears
Upon her broad live bosom! row on row
Rubies and emeralds and amethysts glow.
See! that huge circle like a necklace stares
With thousands of bold eyes to heaven and dares
The golden stars to dim the lamps below
And in the mirror of the mire I know
The moon has left her image unawares.
That's the great town at night: I see her breasts
Pricked out with lamps they stand like huge black towers.
I think they move! I hear her panting breath.
And that's her head where the tiara rests.
And in her brain through lanes as dark as death
Men creep like thoughts...The lamps are like pale flowers. 

What shall we do my soul to please the King?
Seeing he hath no pleasure in the dance
And hath condemned the honeyed utterance
Of silver flutes and mouths made round to sing.
Along the wall red roses climb and cling
And oh! my prince lift up thy countenance
For there be thoughts like roses that entrance
More than the languors of soft lute-playing.
Think how the hidden things that poets see
In amber eves or mornings crystalline
Hide in the soul their constant quenchless light
Till called by some celestial alchemy
Out of forgotten depths they rise and shine
Like buried treasure on Midsummer night.

To see the moment holds a madrigal
To find some cloistered place some hermitage
For free devices some deliberate cage
Wherein to keep wild thoughts like birds in thrall
To eat sweet honey and to taste black gall
To fight with form to wrestle and to rage
Till at the last upon the conquered page
The shadows of created Beauty fall.
This is the sonnet this is all delight
Of every flower that blows in every Spring
And all desire of every desert place
This is the joy that fills a cloudy night
When bursting from her misty following
A perfect moon wins to an empty space.

I know a green grass path that leaves the field
And like a running river winds along
Into a leafy wood where is no throng
Of birds at noon-day and no soft throats yield
Their music to the moon. The place is sealed
An unclaimed sovereignty of voiceless song
And all the unravished silences belong
To some sweet singer lost or unrevealed.
So is my soul become a silent place.
Oh may I wake from this uneasy night
To find a voice of music manifold.
Let it be shape of sorrow with wan face
Or Love that swoons on sleep or else delight
That is as wide-eyed as a marigold.
The Master saith "Look in thy heart and write
What thou hast heard the voices say within
The flashing rainbows and the mist the din
And avalanche of waters snowy white
Of Montmorency leaping down the height."
I feel the throbbing of the joyous linn
Keep time and measure with my pulses in
A thrilling symphony of sound and sight.
For history poetry and wild romance
The old the new Nature's exuberance--
Peace war and love--love still the best of all--
Their story here on every side I learn
And Wolfe's and Montcalm's rival camps discern
In the long thunder of the roaring fall.
I count the mercifullest part of all
God's mercies in this coil of eighty years
Is that no sense of being disappears
Or fails
I see the signal hear the call
Can calmly estimate the rise and fall
Of moth-like mortals in this "vale of tears"
And all His glorious works--the heavenly spheres
The ocean and the earth's unending wall--
Remain for thought and wonder! Marvellous
Is God's creation with its endless space
And those inhabited bright worlds by law
Divinely governed as they shine on us
Still keeping through all time their ordered place
I bow my head in rapture and in awe.
Softer than silence stiller than still air
Float down from high pine boughs the slender leaves.
The forest floor its annual boon receives
That comes like snowfall tireless tranquil fair.
Gently they glide gently they clothe the bare
Old rocks with grace. Their fall a mantle weaves
Of paler yellow than autumnal sheaves
Or those strange blossoms the witch-hazels wear.
Athwart long aisles the sunbeams pierce their way
High up the crows are gathering for the night
The delicate needles fill the air
the jay
Takes through their golden mist his radiant flight
They fall and fall till at November's close
The snow-flakes drop as lightly--snows on snows.

My baby sits beneath the tall elm-trees
A wreath of tangled ribbons in her hands
She twines and twists the many-coloured strands--
A little sorceress weaving destinies.
Now the pure white she grasps
now naught can please
But strips of crimson lurid as the brands
From passion's fires
or yellow like the sands
That lend soft netting to the azure seas.
And so with sweet incessant toil she fills
A summer hour still following fancies new
Till through my heart a sudden terror thrills
Lest as she weaves her aimless choice prove true.
Thank God! our Fates proceed not from our wills:
The Power that spins the thread shall blend the hue.

I must not think of thee
and tired yet strong
I shun the thought that lurks in all delight--
The thought of thee--and in the blue Heaven's height
And in the sweetest passage of a song.
Oh just beyond the fairest thoughts that throng
This breast the thought of thee waits hidden yet bright
But it must never never come in sight
I must stop short of thee the whole day long.
But when sleep comes to close each difficult day
When night gives pause to the long watch I keep
And all my bonds I needs must loose apart
Must doff my will as raiment laid away--
With the first dream that comes with the first sleep
I run I run I am gathered to thy heart.

A poet of one mood in all my lays
Ranging all life to sing one only love
Like a west wind across the world I move
Sweeping my harp of floods mine own wild ways.
The countries change but not the westwind days
Which are my songs. My soft skies shine above
And on all seas the colors of a dove
And on all fields a flash of silver greys.
I make the whole world answer to my art
And sweet monotonous meanings. In your ears
I change not ever bearing for my part
One thought that is the treasure of my years
A small cloud full of rain upon my heart
And in mine arms clasped like a child in tears.
The darkness throbbed that night with the great heat
And my heart throbbed at thought of what should be
The house was dumb the lock slid silently
I only heard the night's hot pulses beat
Around me as I sped with quiet feet
Down the dark corridors
and once the sea
Moaned in its slumber and I stayed but she
Came forth to meet me lily-white and sweet.
Was there a man's soul ever worth her kiss?
Silent and still I stood and she drew near
And her lips mixed with mine and her sweet breath
Fanned my hot face
and afterward I wis
What the sea said to us I did not hear
But now I know it spake of Doom and Death.

O Death Death Death! Thou art the Lord of all
And at Thy temple where for Thee are shed
Man's blood and tears: gods kings and temples fall
Thy reign O Lord is immemorial:
Ever thou waxest stronger and more dread
More populous grows Thy kingdom of the dead
And joy and love and hope Thou hast in thrall.
We follow vain desires and idle things
We vex our souls with hollow hopes and fears
We dread the future and regret the past:
Thou comest O Almighty King of kings
And stillest all the tumult of the years
And tak'st each babbler to thy breast at last.

Pale roamer of the midnight hour! when blow
The cutting winds and beat the pouring rain
Then I bethink on thee and all the pain
You oft endure. It is seldom thine to know
The look benignant: and but few bestow
The gentle smile which timely might restrain
Thy course licentious.--Thus from care and woe
With insults vile proceeds thy hard-earned gain.
Pale roamer when I view thy haggard look
Thy blue and quivering lip and sunken eye
Hear thee accost each stranger passing by
In accents mild--to whom who thus forsook
Thee in thy hour of need my heart has turned
And with a curse his unknown form I've spurned.
Two voices are there: one is of the deep
It learns the storm-cloud's thunderous melody
Now roars now murmurs with the changing sea
Now bird-like pipes now closes soft in sleep:
And one is of an old half-witted sheep
Which bleats articulate monotony
And indicates that two and one are three
That grass is green lakes damp and mountains steep:
And Wordsworth both are thine: at certain times
Forth from the heart of thy melodious rhymes
The form and pressure of high thoughts will burst:
At other times-good Lord! I'd rather be
Quite unacquainted with the A.B.C.
Than write such hopeless rubbish as thy worst.
In the grey dawn I lie within my bed
Still as a frozen lake that pats no more
With murmurous delight the o'erhanging shore
Yet grim thoughts heave obscurely in my head
For curtains I have earthern walls and lead
Is colder than the woollen garb I wore--
But oh! that heart of mine is still as sore
As when I did not know that I was dead.
I knew her (O my Life!) and she was fair
And gave her beauty to the hills and sea
The wonder of her voice to leaf and wave.
The brown earth lies between us
does she care
That since she cast the first dull clod on me
My lonely heart is aching in the grave?

Gone are the aching want the unceasing fret
Mad flight and moaning over battered wings
And self-contempt whose secret penance wrings
Out of the writhing soul her bloody sweat.
But use has never taught me to forget
The glory that the common daylight flings
Still in my heart the rebel tocsin rings
And still is love my glowing amulet.
Calm and contented yet with heart afire
To fight for ever for the sake of strife
I hold the future and the past in fee.
The time to come brings riper fruit for me
Who stretch my hands with passionate desire
And welcome for the green and grey of life. 

Take all of me--I am thine own heart soul
Brain body--all
all that I am or dream
Is thine for ever
yea though space should teem
With thy conditions I'd fulfil the whole--
Were to fulfil them to be loved of thee.
Oh love me!--were to love me but a way
To kill me--love me
so to die would be
To live for ever. Let me hear thee say
Once only "Dear I love thee"--then all life
Would be one sweet remembrance--thou its king:
Nay thou art that already and the strife
Of twenty worlds could not uncrown thee. Bring
O Time! my monarch to possess his throne
Which is my heart and for himself alone.

Sometimes when walls seem enemies and sleep
Given to others like a cruel jest
Sent for my mocking I being mad for rest
Creep out all lonely past the huddled sheep--
Stirring with drowsy tang of bells that keep
Soft iterance through the whispery night where nest
And nestling sway by winnowing wind caressed--
There fling myself along the grass to weep
Sobs gathering hands gripped hard into the earth--
The blessd earth that takes us back at last!--
And think "Ah could this knowledge now befall
Some woman who for long hath thought me worth
Only her hatred she would hold me fast
And strive to comfort me forgetting all."

Time speeding rules: all things compelled obey.
Oh! May this king ne'er turn your love from me!
May every year's forced March a blessing be
Your love recruiting driving fears away.
Dear Guide! Nought can thy tender care repay:
Each seeming harsh reproof was now I see
An act of love: receivedungratefully
Recalling conscience forces me to say.
Feel not amid the greetings of this morn
A Blank because from sight my form has gone:
Though I be absent yet my heart's at home
Hailing thy Birthday while my voice is dumb:
Each absence makes me prize my home the more:
Return shall find meworthier than before.

You strange astonished-looking angle-faced
Dreary-mouthed gaping wretches of the sea
Gulping salt-water everlastingly
Cold-blooded though with red your blood be graced
And mute though dwellers in the roaring waste
And you all shapes beside that fishy be--
Some round some flat some long all devilry
Legless unloving infamously chaste:--
O scaly slippery wet swift staring wights
What is't ye do? What life lead? eh dull goggles?
How do ye vary your vile days and nights?
How pass your Sundays? Are ye still but joggles
In ceaseless wash? Still nought but gapes and bites
And drinks and stares diversified with boggles?

Amazing monster! that for aught I know
With the first sight of thee didst make our race
For ever stare! O flat and shocking face
Grimly divided from the breast below!
Thou that on dry land horribly dost go
With a split body and most ridiculous pace
Prong after prong disgracer of all grace
Long-useless-finned haired upright unwet slow!
O breather of unbreathable sword-sharp air
How canst exist? How bear thyself thou dry
And dreary sloth? What particle canst share
Of the only blessed life the watery?
I sometimes see of ye an actual pair
Go by! linked fin by fin! most odiously.

Green little vaulter in the sunny grass
Catching your heart up at the feel of June
Sole voice that's heard amidst the lazy noon
When even the bees lag at the summoning brass
And you warm little housekeeper who class
With those who think the candles come too soon
Loving the fire and with your tricksome tune
Nick the glad silent moments as they pass
Oh sweet and tiny cousins that belong
One to the fields the other to the hearth
Both have your sunshine
both though small are strong
At your clear hearts
and both were sent on earth
To sing in thoughtful ears this natural song:
Indoors and out summer and winter--Mirth.

It flows through old hushed Egypt and its sands
Like some grave mighty thought threading a dream
And times and things as in that vision seem
Keeping along it their eternal stands--
Caves pillars pyramids the shepherd bands
That roamed through the young world the glory extreme
Of high Sesostris and that southern beam
The laughing queen that caught the world's great hands.
Then comes a mightier silence stern and strong
As of a world left empty of its throng
And the void weighs on us
and then we wake
And hear the fruitful stream lapsing along
'Twixt villages and think how we shall take
Our own calm journey on for human sake.

It is a lofty feeling yet a kind
Thus to be topped with leaves
--to have a sense
Of honour-shaded thought--an influence
As from great nature's fingers and be twined
With her old sacred verdurous ivy-bind
As though she hallowed with that sylvan fence
A head that bows to her benevolence
Midst pomp of fancied trumpets in the wind.
It is what's within us crowned. And kind and great
Are all the conquering wishes it inspires
Love of things lasting love of the tall woods
Love of love's self and ardour for a state
Of natural good befitting such desires
Towns without gain and hunted solitudes.

It lies before me there and my own breath
Stirs its thin outer threads as though beside
The living head I stood in honoured pride
Talking of lovely things that conquer death.
Perhaps he pressed it once or underneath
Ran his fine fingers when he leant blank-eyed
And saw in fancy Adam and his bride
With their heaped locks or his own Delphic wreath.
There seems a love in hair though it be dead.
It is the gentlest yet the strongest thread
Of our frail plant--a blossom from the tree
Surviving the proud trunk
as if it said
Patience and gentleness in power. In me
Behold affectionate eternity.

Again thou reignest in thy golden hall
Rejoicing in thy sway fair queen of night!
The ruddy reapers hail thee with delight
Theirs is the harvest theirs the joyous call
For tasks well ended ere the season's fall.
Sweet orb thou smilest from thy starry height
But whilst on them thy beams are shedding bright
To me thou comest overshadowed with a pall:
To me alone the year hath fruitless flown
Earth hath fulfilled her trust through all her lands
The good man gathereth now where he had sown
And the great master in his vineyard stands
But I as if my task were all unknown
Come to his gates alas with empty hands. 

Stay thine overshadowing wings relentless Time
Nor shed those auburn locks with falling gray
That over my father's frownless forehead play
Graceful and fair as in youth's golden prime.
Stay thy rude hand and he through many a clime
Shall teach thee to retrace thy distant way
To the bright regions of historic day!
Or he shall charm thee with prophetic rhyme
Swept from the strings of freedom's holy lyre
Or call the muses from the Ausonian land
And with the strain their breathing lips inspire
Win thy cold ear and check thy ebbing sand!
Vain is my prayer--already over my sire
Thou ruthless power hast stretched thine iron hand! 

As one who destined from his friends to part
Regrets his loss yet hopes again ere-while
To share their converse and enjoy their smile
And tempers as he may affliction's dart--
Thus loved asociates! chiefs of elder art!
Teachers of wisdom! who could once beguile
My tedious hours and lighten every toil
I now resign you
nor with fainting heart--
For pass a few short years or days or hours
And happier seasons may their dawn unfold
And all your sacred fellowship restore
When freed from earth unlimited its powers
Mind shall with mind direct communion hold
And kindred spirits meet to part no more.

Spring summer autumn! priestesses that hold
Alternate watch at nature's altar! Deep
And full of mystery the course ye keep
In hidden sympathy. First chastely cold
Thou vestal spring most gently dost unfold
The oracles of nature and from sleep
Enchanted bid her infant beauties peep.
Thou summer dost inscribe in living gold
The fullness of each promise sibylline
And makest in part the bright fruition thine
Murmuring soft music from her leafy fane:
Till autumn's stores reveal in corn and wine
The meaning shut in every bud and grain.
Then comes the solemn pause which calls spring back again.

Now day survives the sun. The pale grey skies
A sort of dull and dubious lustre keep
As with their own light shining. Nature lies
Slumbering and gazing on me in her sleep
So still so mute with fixed and soul-less eyes.
The sun is set yet not a star is seen:
Distinct the landscape save where intervene
The creeping mists that from the dark stream rise
Now spread into a sea with islets broken
And woodland points now poised on the thin air:
In the black west the clouds a storm betoken
And all things seem a spectral gloom to wear.
The cautious bat resents the lingering light
And the long-folded sheep wonder it is not night.

There is I think no sunshine like the sky
Of those mild breezy cloudless autumn days
Which tempt once more abroad the butterfly
To search for lingering flowers
when the green sprays
Of ash now loosened drop on him who strays
Through woodland paths while the light yellow leaves
Of fading trees come dancing down all ways
Like wingd things
and oft the stream receives
Full many a tiny voyager whirled along
Amid its eddies
--when the gossamer spreads
Over the fresh clods her trembling silvery threads
And robin thinly screened his sweetest song
Pours forth as if triumphant over the scene
He said "Spring will return and all again be green."

The Sonnet is a world where feelings caught
In webs of phantasy combine and fuse
Their kindred elements 'neath mystic dews
Shed from the ether round man's dwelling wrought
Distilling heart's content star-fragrance fraught
With influences from the breathing fires
Of heaven in everlasting endless gyres
Ending and encircling orbs of thought.
Our Sonnet's world hath two fix'd hemispheres:
This where the sun with fierce strength masculine
Pours his keen rays and bids the noonday shine
That where the moon and the stars concordant powers
Shed milder rays and daylight disappears
In low melodious music of still hours.

Nay Death thou art a shadow! Even as light
Is but the shadow of invisible God
And of that shade the shadow is thin Night
Veiling the earth whereon our feet have trod
So art Thou but the shadow of this life
Itself the pale and unsubstantial shade
Of living God fulfill'd by love and strife
Throughout the universe Himself hath made:
And as frail Night following the flight of earth
Obscures the world we breathe in for a while
So Thou the reflex of our mortal birth
Veilest the life wherein we weep and smile:
But when both earth and life are whirl'd away
What shade can shroud us from God's deathess day? 

There are who when the bat on wing transverse
Skims the swart surface of some neighbouring mere
Catch that thin cry too fine for common ear:
Thus the last joy-note of the universe
Is borne to those few listners who immerse
Their intellectual hearing in no clear
Paean but pierce it with the thin-edged spear
Of utmost beauty which contains a curse.
Dead on their sense fall marches hymeneal
Triumphal odes hymns symphonies sonorous
They crave one shrill vibration tense ideal
Transcending and surpassing the world's chorus
Keen fine ethereal exquisitely real
Intangible as star's light quivering o'er us.

All that began with God in God must end:
All lives are garnered in His final bliss:
All wills hereafter shall be one with His:
When in the sea we sought our spirits blend.
Rays of pure light which one frail prism may rend
Into conflicting colours meet and kiss
With manifold attraction yet still miss
Contentment while their kindred hues contend.
Break but that three-edged glass:--inviolate
The sundered beams resume their primal state
Weaving pure light in flawless harmony.
Thus decomposed subject to love and strife
God's thought made conscious through man's mortal life
Resumes through death the eternal unity.

Lift up your headds gates of my heart unfold
Your portals to salute the King of kings!
Behold Him come borne on cherubic wings
Engrained with crimson eyes and grail of gold!
Before His path the thunder-clouds withhold
Their stormy pinions and the desert sings:
He from His lips divine and forehead flings
Sunlight of peace unfathomed bliss untold.
O soul faint soul disquieted how long!
Lift up thine eyes for lo thy Lord is near
Lord of all loveliness and strength and song
The Lord who brings heart-sadness better cheer
Scattering those midnight dreams that dote on wrong
Purging with heaven's pure rays love's atmosphere!

'Tis midnight! and pale Melancholy stands
Beside me wearing a funereal wreath
Of yew and cypress
the faint dirge of death
Moans in her breathing while her withered hands
Fling corse-bedecking rosemary around.
She offers nightshade spreads a winding-sheet
Points to the clinging clay upon her feet
And whispers tidings of the charnel ground.
Oh! pray thee Melancholy do not bring
These bitter emblems with thee
I can bear
With all but these--'tis these oh God! that wring
And plunge my heart in maddening despair.
Hence for awhile pale Melancholy go!
And let sweet slumber lull my weeping woe.
The child asks "Is it true?" The story's old
Of a brave youth who all on good intent
Alone about the world unwearied went
For love of human kind nor sought for gold.
His face was beautiful with thought
his hold
Of life but frail--as if he had been meant
For gentle ways and could not have been sent
To battle with a world that bought and sold.
A wistful far-off look grew in his eyes
As if they said to all "Good-night farewell!"
Farewell it was. In groves of paradise
A radiant maiden meets him. "Who art thou?"
He asks. "For none so fair on earth did dwell."
"I am thy deeds" she says "that greet thee now!"
Ah! where is hid if still it may survive
The cankered tooth of age and time's despite
Ah! where is hid that orb of glass so bright
That Merlin for King Ryence did contrive?
That wondrous orb so bright wherein did live
Or ere time had brought them into light
The forms of things unborn which to the sight
Its high-enchanted power would strangely give!
For hope with counterfeit of this true glass
Doth so beguile the lover's easy mind
Still turning it to fancy's idiot eye
That reason's self forgets her majesty
To join the gaze
till the fond phantoms pass
And grief and stern repentance rise behind.
Along my father's dykes I roam again
Among the willows by the river-side.
These miles of green I know from hill to tide
And every creek and river's ruddy stain.
Neglected long and shunned our dead have lain
Here where a people's dearest hope had died.
Alone of all their children scattered wide
I scan the sad memorials that remain.
The dykes wave with the grass but not for me
The oxen stir not while this stranger calls.
From these new homes upon the green hill-side
Where speech is strange and a new people free
No voice cries out in welcome
for these halls
Give food and shelter where I may not bide.

From the soft dyke-road crooked and wagon-worn
Comes the great load of rustling scented hay
Slow-drawn with heavy swing and creaky sway
Through the cool freshness of the windless morn.
The oxen yoked and sturdy horn to horn
Sharing the rest and toil of night and day
Bend head and neck to the long hilly way
By many a season's labour marked and torn.
On the broad sea of dyke the gathering heat
Waves upward from the grass where road on road
Is swept before the tramping of the teams.
And while the oxen rest beside the sweet
New hay the loft receives the early load
With hissing stir among the dusty beams.
I have no wealth of grief
no sobs no tears
Not any sighs no words no overflow
Nor storms of passion no reliefs
yet oh!
I have a leaden grief and with it fears
Lest they who think there's nought where nought appears
May say I never loved him. Ah not so!
Love for him fills my heart
if grief is slow
In utterance remember that for years
Love was a habit and the grief is new
So new a thing it has no language yet.
Tears crowd my heart: with eyes that are not wet
I watch the rain-drops silent large and few
Blotting a stone
then comforted I take
Those drops to be my tears shed for his sake. 

That nose is out of drawing. With a gasp
She pants upon the passionate lips that ache
With the red drain of her own mouth and make
A monochord of colour. Like an asp
One lithe lock wriggles in his rutilant grasp.
Her bosom is an oven of myrrh to bake
Love's white warm shewbread to a browner cake.
The lock his fingers clench has burst its hasp.
The legs are absolutely abominable.
Ah! what keen overgust of wild-eyed woes
Flags in that bosom flushes in that nose?
Nay! Death sets riddles for desire to spell
Responsive. What red hem earth's passion sews
But may be ravenously untripped in hell? 

Lying asleep between the strokes of night
I saw my love lean over my sad bed
Pale as the duskiest lily's leaf or head
Smooth-skinned and dark with bare throat made to bite
Too wan for blushing and too warm for white
But perfect-colored without white or red.
And her lips opened amorously and said--
I wist not what saving one word--Delight
And all her face was honey to my mouth
And all her body pasture to mine eyes
The long lithe arms and hotter hands than fire
The quivering flanks hair smelling of the south
The bright light feet the splendid supple thighs
And glittering eyelids of my soul's desire. 

Beneath the shadow of dawn's arial cope
With eyes enkindled as the sun's own sphere
Hope from the front of youth in godlike cheer
Looks Godward past the shades where blind men grope
Round the dark door that prayers nor dreams can ope
And makes for joy the very darkness dear
That gives her wide wings play
nor dreams that fear
At noon may rise and pierce the heart of hope.
Then when the soul leaves off to dream and yearn
May truth first purge her eyesight to discern
What once being known leaves time no power to appall
Till yoiuth at last ere yet youth be not learn
The kind wise word that falls from years that fall--
"Hope thou not much and fear thou not at all."

Two souls diverse out of our human sight
Pass followed one with love and each with wonder:
The stormy sophist with his mouth of thunder
Clothed with loud words and mantled in the might
Of darkness and magnificence of night
And one whose eye could smite the night in sunder
Searching if light or no light were thereunder
And found in love of loving-kindness light.
Duty divine and Thought with eyes of fire
Still following Righteousness with deep desire
Shone sole and stern before her and above--
Sure stars and sole to steer by
but more sweet
Shone lower the loveliest lamp for earthly feet--
The light of little children and their love.

Chief in thy generation born of men
Whom English praise acclaimed as English-born
With eyes that matched the worldwide eyes of morn
For gleam of tears or laughter tenderest then
When thoughts of children warmed their light or when
Reverence of age with love and labor worn
Or godlike pity fired with godlike scorn
Shot through them flame that winged thy swift live pen:
Where stars and suns that we behold not burn
Higher even thatn here though highest was here thy place
Love sees thy spirit laugh and speak and shine
With Shakespeare and the soft bright sould of Sterne
And Fielding's kindliest might and Goldsmith's grace
Scarce one more loved or worthier love than thine.

O son of man by lying tongues adored
By slaughterous hands of slaves with feet red-shod
In carnage deep as ever Christian trod
Profaned with prayer and sacrifice abhorred
And incense from the trembling tyrant's horde
Brute worshippers of wielders of the rod
Most murderous even of all that call thee God
Most treacherous even that ever called thee Lord
Face loved of little children long ago
Head hated of the priests and rulers then
If thou see this or hear these hounds of thine
Run ravening as the Gadarean swine
Say was not this thy Passion to foreknow
In death's worst hour the works of Christian men?

Crowned girdled garbed and shod with light and fire
Son first-born of the morning sovereign star!
Soul nearest ours of all that wert most far
Most far off in the abysm of time thy lyre
Hung highest above the dawn-enkindled quire
Where all ye sang together all that are
And all the starry songs behind thy car
Rang sequence all our souls acclaim thee sire.
"If all the pens that ever poets held
Had fed the feeling of their masters' thoughts"
And as with rush of hurtling chariots
The flight of all their spirits were impelled
Toward one great end thy glory--nay not then
Not yet might'st thou be praised enough of men.

Not if men's tongues and angels' all in one
Spake might the word be said that might speak thee.
Streams winds woods flowers fields mountains yea the sea
What power is in them all to praise the sun?
His praise is this--he can be praised of none.
Man woman child praise God for him
but he
Exults not to be worshiped but to be.
He is
and being beholds his work well done.
All joy all glory all sorrow all strength all mirth
Are his
without him day were night on earth.
Time knows not his from time's own period.
All lutes all harps all viols all flutes all lyres
Fall dumb before him ere one string suspires.
All stars are angels
but the sun is God.

Broad-based broad-fronted bounteous multiform
With many a valley impleached with ivy and vine
Wherein the springs of all the streams run wine
And many a crag full-faced against the storm
The mountain where thy Muse's feet made warm
Those lawns that reveled with her dance divine
Shines yet with fire as it was wont to shine
From tossing torches round the dance aswarm.
Nor less high-stationed on the gray grave heights
High-thoughted seers with heaven's heart-kindling lights
Hold converse
and the herd of meaner things
Knows or by fiery scourge or fiery shaft
When wrath on thy broad brows has risen and laughed
Darkening thy soul with shadow of thunderous wings.

An hour ere sudden sunset fired the west
Arose two stars upon the pale deep east.
The hall of heaven was clear for night's high feast
Yet was not yet day's fiery heart at rest.
Love leapt up from his mother's burning breast
To see those warm twin lights as day decreased
Wax wider till when all the sun had ceased
As suns they shone from evening's kindled crest.
Across them and between a quickening fire
Flamed Venus laughing with appeased desire.
Their dawn scarce lovelier for the gleam of tears
Filled half the hollow shell 'twixt heaven and earth
With sound like moonlight mingling moan and mirth
Which rings and glitters down the darkling years.

Hew hard the marble from the mountain's heart
Where hardest night holds fast in iron gloom
Gems brighter than an April dawn in bloom
That his Memnonian likeness thence may start
Revealed whose hand with high funereal art
Carved night and chiselled shadow: be the tomb
That speaks him famous graven with signs of doom
Intrenched inevitably in lines athwart
As on some thunder-blasted Titan's brow
His record of rebellion. Not the day
Shall strike forth music from so stern a chord
Touching this marble: darkness none knows how
And stars impenetrable of midnight may
So looms the likeness of thy soul John Ford.

Thunder: the flesh quails and the soul bows down.
Night: east west south and northward very night.
Star upon struggling star strives into sight
Star after shuddering star the deep storms drown.
The very throne of night her very crown
A man lays hand on and usurps her right.
Song from the highest of heaven's imperious height
Shoots as a fire to smite some towering town.
Rage anguish harrowing fear heart-crazing crime
Make monstrous all the murderous face of Time
Shown in the spheral orbit of a glass
Revolving. Earth cries out from all her graves.
Frail on frail rafts across wide-wallowing waves
Shapes here and there of child and mother pass.

Greene garlanded with February's few flowers
Ere March came in with Marlowe's rapturous rage
Peele from whose hand the sweet white locks of age
Took the mild chaplet woven of honored hours
Nash laughing hard
Lodge flushed from lyric bowers
And Lilly a goldfinch in a twisted cage
Fed by some gay great lady's pettish page
Till short sweet songs gush clear like short spring showers
Kid whose grim sport still gamboled over graves
And Chettle in whose fresh funereal verse
Weeps Marian yet on Robin's wildwood hearse
Cooke whose light boat of song one soft breath saves
Sighed from a maiden's amorous mouth averse
Live likewise ye--Time takes not you for slaves.
With hands that folded are from every task
It must be sweet O thou my dead to lie
Sealed with the seal of the great mystery--
The lips that nothing answer nothing ask
The life-long struggle ended
ended quite
The weariness of patience and of pain
And the eyes closed to open not again
On desolate dawn or dreariness of night.
It must be sweet to slumber and forget
To have the poor tired heart so still at last:
Done with all yearning done with all regret
Doubt fear hope sorrow all for ever past:
Past all the hours or slow of wing or fleet--
It must be sweet it must be very sweet!

Winged wanderer from clover meadows sweet
Where all day long beneath a smiling sky
You drained the wild-flowers' cups of honey dry
And heard the drowsy winds their loves repeat
What idle zephyr whispering deceit
Has won your heart and tempted you to fly
Unto this noisy town and vainly pry
Into the secrets of this busy street?
To me your unexpected presence brings
A thought of fragrant pastures buds and flowers
And sleepy brooks and cattle in the fold
Or watching as you soar on trembling wings
I think for those who toil through weary hours
You are a type of their uncertain gold. 

When pale Selene in her crescent boat
Sails down into the margin of the West
Through shoals of stars that twinkle in unrest
In fancy's bark I follow her and float
O'er sapphire seas to dreamy realms remote
And at my side there goes a feathered guest
Who sings to cheer me and the air is blest
With melody responsive to his note.
On on I journey in the starry wake
And all about me is the purple dark
Whence blow the winds by which my bark is borne
And suddenly the poppy fetters break
The moon is gone and in the field a lark
Pays tribute to the faint Pacific morn. 

With no cold admiration do I gaze
Upon thy pomp of waters matchless stream!
But home-sick fancy kindles with the beam
That on thy lucid bosom coyly plays
And glides delighted through thy crystal ways
Till on her eye those wave-fed poplars gleam
Beneath whose shade her first etherial maze
She fashioned
where she traced in clearest dream
Thy mirrored curse of wood-enshrined repose
Besprent with island haunts of spirits bright
And widening on--till at the vision's close
Great London only then a name of might
For childish thought to build on proudly rose
A rock-throned city clad in heavenly light.
'Gainst the dusk gold of morn's candescent sky
Strike dome and campanile sharp and clear
Jangling sweet bells on the still city's ear.
Strange scents of musk and myrtle hover nigh
The frail pomegranate-blossoms hanging high
Above the dark canal drop straight and sheer
Drift on a crimson fleet then disappear.
High-heap'd with sun-kiss'd fruits the boats go by
With cadenc'd oar to the gay market-place
Where purple bloomy grapes for very stress
Of swollen sweetness burst and spill their wine
Where bronzd melons lie in shade and shine
And the Sea City's definite impress
Glows in swart splendour from each dusky face.

Ensigns of empires flaunt thy flanking wall
Grim ancient warders guard thy storied gate
Loud Babeled centuries at thy bastions wait
On Spanish French and English seneschal.
Rich yellow folds of Castile's haughty state
Fair Fleur de Lys from proud Parisian hall
St. George's Cross triumphant o'er them all
Recall long years of fierce and bloody hate.
But now the star-eyed daisy lifts its form
From crevice chink and crumbling parapet
Without one stain of battle's crimson storm
On snowy leaf with golden petal set:
Bright banneret which Nature kindly rears
To deck with light the mould of bitter years.

An aged man came late to Abraham's tent.
The sky was dark and all the plain was bare.
He asked for bread
his strength was wellnigh spent
His haggard look implored the tenderest care.
The food was brought. He sat with thankful eyes
But spake no grace nor bowed he towards the east.
Safe sheltered here from dark and angry skies
The bounteous table seemed a royal feast.
But ere his hand had touched the tempting fare
The Patriarch rose and leaning on his rod
"Stranger" he said "dost thou not bow in prayer?
Dost thou not fear dost thou not worship God?"
He answered "Nay." The Patriarch sadly said:
"Thou hast my pity. Go! eat not my bread."
Another came that wild and fearful night.
The fierce winds raged and darker grew the sky
But all the tent was filled with wondrous light
And Abraham knew the Lord his God was nigh.
"Where is that aged man?" the Presence said
"That asked for shelter from the driving blast?
Who made thee master of thy Master's bread?
What right hadst thou the wanderer forth to cast?"
"Forgive me Lord" the Patriarch answer made
With downcast look with bowed and trembling knee.
"Ah me! the stranger might with me have stayed
But O my God he would not worship Thee."
"I've borne him long" God said "and still I wait:
Couldst thou not lodge him one night in thy gate?"


The nuptial-knot at last is firmly tied
A hundred bells ring out a merry chime
A hundred wires proclaim to every clime
Manhattan takes fair Brooklyn for his bride.
In strength and beauty growing side by side
Cities betrothed you waited vigorous prime
Like steadfast lovers in the olden time
Ere greed and gain our early faith defied.
We wish you joy. No longer twain but one
Forever bound in links of triple steel
You need no marriage ritual to rehearse
Which Venice chanted to bright Adria won
No golden ring
the service now is real
"Each other take for better or for worse."


Again I see him on the sunlit lawn
As in the May-day of that final year
With brow as radiant as the early dawn
And eye transparent as the heavens clear.
With cloak o'er shoulder thrown in careless grace
He stands enframed in budding flowers and trees
A genial Orpheus with Olympian face
Forever fanned by pure Arcadian breeze.
Ah more to me than Prospero's magic isle
The paths and greensward where the poet dreamed
The opening blossoms wooed his kindly smile
The expectant flowers with richer colors gleamed.
My soul still clasps the warm and generous hand
Which wields the sceptre of a kingless land.


When I do note the beauty of thine eyes
And think that they have long been sightless dust
When I observe the warrior's envied prize
Helmet and corseletthick with yellow rust
When scutcheoned doors lie prone in castle halls
And turrets totter razed by ruthless Time
When panelled brass from stately column falls
Well-graved with praises writ in lofty rhyme
Then I perceive how all things here decay
That this wide world is but a shifting stage
Where faith and love fierce pride and passion play
And narrow lines divide the fool and sage
Where fame's brief candle flickers to its death
And beauty's reign is measured by a breath.


Imperial beauty born for Ilium's blight
Sweet winsome Helen paragon of earth
Would that our flocks were still on Ida's height
And princely halls unemptied of their mirth!
Alas! proud Troy is tottering to her fall
Our promised joys are steeped in bitter pain
Kinsmen and Greek in deep derision call
And every eye speaks loathing and disdain.
Dear bribe of Venus! why were we beguiled
By Cyprian words to walk in devious ways
And leave our names as synonymes reviled
Forevermore through unforgiving days?
O fruitless passion won at honor's cost!
Faith courage gloryall forever lost.

With measuring lines we reach from star to star
On pinion bold we seek creation's rim
The vast horizon mocks us from afar
With sphere on sphere beyond our vision dim
On weary wing our thought from voyage vain
Like that lone dove with neither leaf nor bud
Returns to find the windowed ark again
A floating refuge on a shoreless flood.
O mystery vast which veils the sovereign brow!
O vergeless silence depths by light untrod!
Space without centre! Time eternal now!
O star-gemmed vesture! Seamless robe of God!
What word doth this vast Universe inthrall!
Bounded by nothing yet embracing all.

One more fond kiss my Romeo and away!
The eastern hills are touched with rosy light.
Ah love with thee dun night is brightest day
And brightest day when thou art gone is night.
How blest the hours swift-borne on starry wheels!
How heavy waiting on the laggard sun!
A weary void till day her eyelids seals
And Heaven's high warders guard love's fortress won.
Dear Romeo go! Yet I would have thee stay.
O pilfering morn that robs the jewelled skies!
Purloining gems within thy mantle gray
Take all but leave the one dear star I prize.
Alas! that love from love should ever part
Yon sunrise brings wan sunset to my heart.

My Cleopatra queen alas the day
Thy lustrous eyes proclaimed such bitter doom!
That shame and Antony should live for aye
An epitaph on Time's enduring tomb!
Soft-coiling serpent! Thy enticing wiles
Hold heroes captive in strong toils of grace
For power is lost in passion as fond smiles
Light up the matchless beauty of thy face.
Cold duty summons
but enchantress fair
My courage melts beneath thy glowing eyes
And in thine arms I neither reck nor care
If Roman honor lives or basely dies.
Let Fame's rich pearl dissolve in nectar bright!
Farewell to valorday is lost in night.

Miranda mine thy beauty is more rare
Than May-day flowers that deck the meadows green
Thy lips are sweeter than the lily fair
Plucked fresh at dawn from out the glittering sheen
The mantling color of thy cheek's bright hue
Makes pale and shames the blood of damask-rose
Thine eye preserves the violet's pensive blue
Which born of light with Heaven's own color glows
Thy neck full sweet seems like a flowery lane
Or garden pathway to thy gentle breast
Where love that knows not passion's earthly stain
Has dwelt alone and wished no other guest.
Here Eden's flowers retain the morning dew
And sweeter seem united all in you.

Wordsworth I love his books are like the fields
Not filled with flowers but works of human kind
The pleasant weed a fragrant pleasure yields
The briar and broomwood shaken by the wind
The thorn and bramble o'er the water shoot
A finer flower than gardens e'er gave birth
The aged huntsman grubbing up the root--
I love them all as tenants of the earth:
Where genius is there often die the seeds
What critics throw away I love the more
I love to stoop and look among the weeds
To find a flower I never knew before
Wordsworth go on--a greater poet be
Merit will live though parties disagree!

When shall I see the white thorn leaves again
And yellowhammers gath'ring the dry bents
By the dyke side on stilly moor or fen
Feathered wi love and natures good intents
Rude is the nest this Architect invents
Rural the place wi cart ruts by dyke side
Dead grass horse hair and downy headed bents
Tied to dead thistles she doth well provide
Close to a hill o' ants where cowslips bloom
And shed o'er meadows far their sweet perfume
In early Spring when winds blow chilly cold
The yellowhammer trailing grass will come
To fix a place and choose an early home
With yellow breast and head of solid gold.

Elia thy reveries and visioned themes
To care's lorn heart a luscious pleasure prove
Wild as the mystery of delightful dreams
Soft as the anguish of remembered love:
Like records of past days their memory dances
Mid the cool feelings manhood's reason brings
As the unearthly visions of romances
Peopled with sweet and uncreated things
And yet thy themes thy gentle worth enhances!
Then wake again thy wild harp's tenderest strings
Sing on sweet Bard let fairy loves again
Smile in thy dreams with angel ecstasies
Bright over our souls will break the heavenly strain
Through the dull gloom of earth's realities.
The leaves which in the autumn of the year
Fall auburn-tinted leaving reft and bare
Their parent trees in many a sheltered lair
Where Winter waits and watches cold austere
Will lie in drifts
and when the snowdrops cheer
The woodland shadows still the leaves are there
Though through the glades the balmy southern air
And birds and boughs proclaim that Spring is here.
So lost hopes severed by the stress of life
Lie all unburied yet before our eyes
Though none but we regard their mute decay
And ever amid this stir and moil and strife
Fresh aims and growing purposes arise
Above the faded hopes of yesterday.
When I look back upon my childish years
And think how little then I thought at all
Sometimes to me it now almost appears
So great the change has been 'twere but a small
Increase of change that might transform a man
Into a spirit standing at the throne
Of God to see in full the mighty plan
Divine and know as also he is known.
For why should thus so vast a growth have been
Which all but tops the verge of earthly skies
If at the end all that a man hath seen
Be blotted out before his closing eyes?
So were it better still a child to be
And shout young laughter through a world of glee. 

Why should I chafe and fret myself to find
Some pebble still untouched upon the beach
Where struggling wavelets follow each on each
Upon the tide-mark of advancing Mind?
If one with them and urged by those behind
My utmost energy at last should reach
A stone unwetted by a bubble's breach
What gain were it to me or to my kind?
Though I should fail that further inch to go
Some other soon will creep its rugged floor
While resting on the conquered strand below
I calmly watch the rivalry before
Rejoicing at the steady onward flow
But at my new-found peace rejoicing more.

And this reft house is that the which he built
Lamented Jack! and here his malt he piled
Cautious in vain! These rats that squeak so wild
Squeak not unconscious of their father's guilt.
Did ye not see her gleaming through the glade!
Belike 't was she the maiden all forlorn.
What tho' she the maiden all forlorn.
What tho' she milk no cow with crumpled horn
Yet aye she haunts the dale where erst she stray'd
And aye beside her stalks her amorous knight!
Still on his thighs their wonted brogues are worn
And thro' those brogues still tatter'd and betorn
His hindward charms gleam an unearthly white
As when thro' broken clouds at night's high noon
Peeps in fair fragments forth the full orb'd harvest moon. 

Child of lubricious art of sanguine sport!
Of pangful mirth! sweet ermined sprite!
Who lov'st with silent velvet step to court
The bashful bosom of the night.
Whose elfin eyes can pierce night's sable gloom
And witch her fairy prey with guile
Who sports fell frolic o'er the grisly tomb
And gracest death with dimpling smile!
Daughter of ireful mirth sportive in rage
Whose joy should shine in sculptur'd bas relief
Like Patience in rapt Shakespeare's deathless page
Smiling in marble at wan grief.
Oh come and teach me all thy barb'rous joy
To sport with sorrow first and then destroy.
Thou art not lovelier than lilacs--no
Nor honeysuckle
thou art not more fair
Than small white single poppies--I can bear
Thy beauty
though I bend before thee though
From left to right not knowing where to go
I turn my troubled eyes nor here nor there
Find any refuge from thee yet I swear
So has it been with mist--with moonlight so.
Like him who day by day unto his draught
Of delicate poison adds him one drop more
Till he may drink unharmed the death of ten
Even so inured to beauty who have quaffed
Each hour more deeply than the hour before
I drink--and live--what has destroyed some men.

Time does not bring relief
you all have lied
Who told me time would ease me of my pain!
I miss him in the weeping of the rain
I want him at the shrinking of the tide
The old snows melt from every mountain-side
And last year's leaves are smoke in every lane
But last year's bitter loving must remain
Heaped on my heart and my old thoughts abide!
There are a hundred places where I fear
To go--so with his memory they brim!
And entering with relief some quiet place
Where never fell his foot or shone his face
I say "There is no memory of him here!"
And so stand stricken so remembering him!

Mindful of you the sodden earth in spring
And all the flowers that in the springtime grow
And dusty roads and thistles and the slow
Rising of the round moon all throats that sing
The summer through and each departing wing
And all the nests that the bared branches show
And all winds that in any weather blow
And all the storms that the four seasons bring.
You go no more on your exultant feet
Up paths that only mist and morning knew
Or watch the wind or listen to the beat
Of a bird's wings too high in air to view--
But you were something more than young and sweet
And fair--and the long year remembers you.

Not in this chamber only at my birth--
When the long hours of that mysterious night
Were over and the morning was in sight--
I cried but in strange places steppe and firth
I have not seen through alien grief and mirth
And never shall one room contain me quite
Who in so many rooms first saw the light
Child of all mothers native of the earth.
So is no warmth for me at any fire
To-day when the world's fire has burned so low
I kneel spending my breath in vain desire
At that cold hearth which one time roared so strong
And straighten back in weariness and long
To gather up my little gods and go. 

If I should learn in some quite casual way
That you were gone not to return again--
Read from the back-page of a paper say
Held by a neighbor in a subway train
How at the corner of this avenue
And such a street (so are the papers filled)
A hurrying man--who happened to be you--
At noon to-day had happened to be killed
I should not cry aloud--I could not cry
Aloud or wring my hands in such a place--
I should but watch the station lights rush by
With a more careful interest on my face
Or raise my eyes and read with greater care
Where to store furs and how to treat the hair.

This door you might not open and you did
So enter now and see for what slight thing
You are betrayed. . . . Here is no treasure hid
No cauldron no clear crystal mirroring
The sought-for truth no heads of women slain
For greed like yours no writhings of distress
But only what you see. . . . Look yet again--
An empty room cobwebbed and comfortless.
Yet this alone out of my life I kept
Unto myself lest any know me quite
And you did so profane me when you crept
Unto the threshold of this room to-night
That I must never more behold your face.
This now is yours. I seek another place.

I shall forget you presently my dear
So make the most of this your little day
Your little month your little half a year
Ere I forget or die or move away
And we are done forever
by and by
I shall forget you as I said but now
If you entreat me with your loveliest lie
I will protest you with my favorite vow.
I would indeed that love were longer-lived
And vows were not so brittle as they are
But so it is and nature has contrived
To struggle on without a break thus far
Whether or not we find what we are seeking
Is idle biologically speaking.

Loving you less than life a little less
Than bitter-sweet upon a broken wall
Or bush-wood smoke in autumn I confess
I cannot swear I love you not at all.
For there is that about you in this light--
A yellow darkness sinister of rain--
Which sturdily recalls my stubborn sight
To dwell on you and dwell on you again.
And I am made aware of many a week
I shall consume remembering in what way
Your brown hair grows about your brow and cheek
And what divine absurdities you say:
Till all the world and I and surely you
Will know I love you whether or not I do.

Into the golden vessel of great song
Let us pour all our passion
breast to breast
Let other lovers lie in love and rest
Not we--articulate so but with the tongue
Of all the world: the churning blood the long
Shuddering quiet the desperate hot palms pressed
Sharply together upon the escaping guest
The common soul unguarded and grown strong.
Longing alone is singer to the lute
Let still on nettles in the open sigh
The minstrel that in slumber is as mute
As any man and love be far and high
That else forsakes the topmost branch a fruit
Found on the ground by every passer-by.

How healthily their feet upon the floor
Strike down! These are no spirits but a band
Of children surely leaping hand in hand
Into the air in groups of three and four
Wearing their silken rags as if they wore
Leaves only and light grasses or a strand
Of black elusive seaweed oozing sand
And running hard as if along a shore.
I know how lost forever and at length
How still these lovely tossing limbs shall lie
And the bright laughter and the panting breath
And yet before such beauty and such strength
Once more as always when the dance is high
I am rebuked that I believe in death.

Love is not blind. I see with single eye
Your ugliness and other women's grace.
I know the imperfection of your face
The eyes too wide apart the brow too high
For beauty. Learned from earliest youth am I
In loveliness and cannot so erase
Its letters from my mind that I may trace
You faultless I must love until I die.
More subtle is the sovereignty of love:
So am I caught that when I say "Not fair"
'Tis but as if I said "Not here--not there
Not risen--not writing letters." Well I know
What is this beauty men are babbling of
I wonder only why they prize it so.

Not with libations but with shouts and laughter
We drenched the altars of Love's sacred grove
Shaking to earth green fruits impatient after
The launching of the coloured moths of Love.
Love's proper myrtle and his mother's zone
We bound about our irreligious brows
And fettered him with garlands of our own
And spread a banquet in his frugal house.
Not yet the god has spoken
but I fear
Though we should break our bodies in his flame
And pour our blood upon his altar here
Henceforward is a grove without a name
A pasture to the shaggy goats of Pan
Whence flee forever a woman and a man.

The light comes back with Columbine
she brings
A touch of this a little touch of that
Coloured confetti and a favour hat
Patches and powder dolls that work by strings
And moons that work by switches all the things
That please a sick man's fancy and a flat
Spry convalescent kiss and a small pat
Upon the pillow paper offerings.
The light goes out with her
the shadows sprawl.
Where she has left her fragrance like a shawl
I lie alone and pluck the counterpane
Or on a dizzy elbow rise and hark
And down like dominoes along the dark
Her little silly laughter spills again! 

Oh think not I am faithful to a vow!
Faithless am I save to love's self alone.
Were you not lovely I would leave you now:
After the feet of beauty fly my own.
Were you not still my hunger's rarest food
And water ever to my wildest thirst
I would desert you--think not but I would!
And seek another as I sought you first.
But you are mobile as the veering air
And all your charms more changeful than the tide
Wherefore to be inconstant is no care:
I have but to continue at your side.
So wanton light and false my love are you
I am most faithless when I most am true. 

I do but ask that you be always fair
That I forever may continue kind
Knowing me what I am you should not dare
To lapse from beauty ever nor seek to bind
My alterable mood with lesser cords
Weeping and such soft matters must invite
To further vagrancy
and bitter words
Chafe soon to irremediable flight
Wherefore I pray you if you love me dearly
Less dear to hold me than your own bright charms
Whence it may fall that until death or nearly
I shall not move to struggle from your arms:
Fade if you must--I would but bid you be
Like the sweet year doing all things graciously.

I pray you if you love me bear my joy
A little while or let me weep your tears
I too have seen the quavering Fate destroy
Your destiny's bright spinning--the dull sheares
Meeting not neatly chewing at the thread
Nor can you well be less aware how fine
How staunch as wire and how unwarranted
Endures the golden fortune that is mine.
I pray you for this day at least my dear
Fare by my side that journey in the sun
Else must I turn me from the blossoming year
And walk in grief the way that you have gone.
Let us go forth together to the spring:
Love must be this if it be anything.

I think I should have loved you presently
And given in earnest words I flung in jest
And lifted honest eyes for you to see
And caught your hand against my cheek and breast
And all my pretty follies flung aside
That won you to me and beneath your gaze
Naked of reticence and shorn of pride
Spread like a chart my little wicked ways.
I that had been to you had you remained
But one more waking frorn a recurrent dream
Cherish no less the certain stakes I gained
And walk your memory's halls austere supreme
A ghost in marble of a girl you knew
Who would have loved you in a day or two.

When I too long have looked upon your face
Wherein for me a brightness unobscured
Save by the mists of brightness has its place
And terrible beauty not to be endured
I turn away reluctant from your light
And stand irresolute a mind undone
A silly dazzled thing deprived of a sight
From having looked too long upon the sun.
Then is my daily life a narrow room
In which a little while uncertainly
Surrounded by impenetrable gloom
Among familiar things grown strange to me
Making my way I pause and feel and hark
Till I become accustomed to the dark.

And you as well must die belovd dust
And all your beauty stand you in no stead
This flawless vital hand this perfect head
This body of flame and steel before the gust
Of Death or under his autumnal frost
Shall be as any leaf be no less dead
Than the first leaf that fell this wonder fled
Altered estranged disintegrated lost.
Nor shall my love avail you in your hour.
In spite of all my love you will arise
Upon that day and wander down the air
Obscurely as the unattended flower
It mattering not how beautiful you were
Or how beloved above all else that dies.

I only know that every hour with you
Is torture to me and that I would be
From your two piognant lovelinesses free!
Rainbows green fire white diamonds the fierce blue
Of shimmering ice-bergs or to be shot through
With lightning or a sword incessantly--
Such things have beauty doubtless
but to me
Mist shadow silence--these are lovely too.
There is no shelter in you anywhere
Rhythmic intolerable your burning rays
Trample upon me withering my breath
I will be gone and rid of you I swear:
To stand upon the peaks of Love always
Proves but that part of Love whose name is Death.

Still will I harvest beauty where it grows:
In coloured fungus and the spotted fog
Surprised on foods forgotten
in ditch and bog
Filmed brilliant with irregular rainbows
Of rust and oil where half a city throws
Its empty tins
and in some spongy log
Whence headlong leaps the oozy emerald frog.
And a black pupil in the green scum shows.
Her the inhabiter of divers places
Surmising at all doors I push them all.
Oh you that fearful of a creaking hinge
Turn back forevermore with craven faces
I tell you Beauty bears an ultrafringe
Unguessed of you upon her gossamer shawl!

Sometimes when I am wearied suddenly
Of all the things that are the outward you
And my gaze wanders ere your tale is through
To webs of my own weaving or I see
Abstractedly your hands about your knee
And wonder why I love you as I do
Then I recall "Yet Sorrow thus he drew
"
Then I consider "Pride thus painted he."
Oh friend forget not when you fain would note
In me a beauty that was never mine
How first you knew me in a book I wrote
How first you loved me for a written line:
So are we bound till broken is the throat
Of Song and Art no more leads out the Nine.

Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare.
Let all who prate of Beauty hold their peace
And lay them prone upon the earth and cease
To ponder on themselves the while they stare
At nothing intricately drawn nowhere
In shapes of shifting lineage
let geese
Gabble and hiss but heroes seek release
From dusty bondage into luminous air.
O blinding hour O holy terrible day
When first the shaft into his vision shone
Of light anatomized! Euclid alone
Has looked on Beauty bare. Fortunate they
Who though once only and then but far away
Have heard her massive sandal set on stone.

Only until this cigarette is ended
A little moment at the end of all
While on the floor the quiet ashes fall
And in the firelight to a lance extended
Bizarrely with the jazzing music blended
The broken shadow dances on the wall
I will permit my memory to recall
The vision of you by all my dreams attended.
And then adieu--farewell!--the dream is done.
Yours is a face of which I can forget
The colour and the features every one
The words not ever and the smiles not yet
But in your day this moment is the sun
Upon a hill after the sun has set.

I shall go back again to the bleak shore
And build a little shanty on the sand
In such a way that the extremest band
Of brittle seaweed will escape my door
But by a yard or two
and nevermore
Shall I return to take you by the hand
I shall be gone to what I understand
And happier than I ever was before.
The love that stood a moment in your eyes
The words that lay a moment on your tongue
Are one with all that in a moment dies
A little under-said and over-sung.
But I shall find the sullen rocks and skies
Unchanged from what they were when I was young. 

Cherish you then the hope I shall forget
At length my lord Pieria?--put away
For your so passing sake this mouth of clay
These mortal bones against my body set
For all the puny fever and frail sweat
Of human love--renounce for these I say
The Singing Mountain's memory and betray
The silent lyre that hangs upon me yet?
Ah but indeed some day shall you awake
Rather from dreams of me that at your side
So many nights a lover and a bride
But stern in my soul's chastity have lain
To walk the world forever for my sake
And in each chamber find me gone again!

A little child she stood that far-off day
When Love the master-painter took the brush
And on the wall of mem'ry dull and grey
Traced tender eyes wide brow and changing blush
The gladness and the youth the bending head
All covered over with its curls of gold
The dimpled arms the two hands filled with bread
To feed the little sparrows brown and bold
That flutter to her feet. It hangs there still
Just as 'twas painted on that far-off day
Nor faded is the blush upon the cheek
The sweet lips hold their smiling and can thrill
And still the eyes--so tender and so meek--
Light up the walls of mem'ry dull and grey. 

Quebec the grey old city on the hill
Lies with a golden glory on her head
Dreaming throughout this hour so fair--so still--
Of other days and all her mighty dead.
The white doves perch upon the cannons grim
The flowers bloom where once did run a tide
Of crimson when the moon rose pale and dim
Above the battlefield so grim and wide.
Methinks within her wakes a mighty glow
Of pride of tenderness--her stirring past--
The strife the valour of the long ago
Feels at her heartstrings. Strong and tall and vast
She lies touched with the sunset's golden grace
A wondrous softness on her grey old face.

A glorious form thy shining city wore
'Mid cypress thickets of perennial green
With minaret and golden dome between
While thy sea softly kiss'd its grassy shore:
Darting across whose blue expanse was seen
Of sculptur'd barques and galleys many a score
Whence noise was none save that of plashing oar
Nor word was spoke to break the calm serene.
Unheard is whisker'd boatman's hail or joke
Who mute as Sinbad's man of copper rows
And only intermits the sturdy stroke
When fearless gull too nigh his pinnace goes.
I hardly conscious if I dream'd or woke
Mark'd that strange piece of action and repose.

How many a year hath Time with felon hand
Filched from the sum of my alloted days
Alas with no performance that may stand
In warrant of a well-earned meed of praise!
Time hath the forehead of my life belined
And clipt my youth with his accursd shears
Hath made companionable Joy unkind
And taught mine eyes the fellowship of tears.
His false hands falsely have my mind assailed
Thence stealing many a secret of sweet pleasure
But his foiled fingers nothing have prevailed
Against my heart--the casket of my treasure.
My love of thee preserved in its fresh prime
I robbed left rich
how poor a thief is Time! 

O visioned face unutterably fair
How oft when blackness muffled up the night
And tempest-laden was the surcharged air
Nor any hope appeared of starry light
How often lucent as the full-faced moon
When suddenly she rends the clouded fleece
Hath thy sweet influence like an unhoped boon
Turned dark to bright and tempest into peace!
Queen of my night of sorrows hast thou been
Whose countenance of good all evil mars
Knowing to crown with hopeful light serene
Earth's darksome vault when most forlorn of stars
And to convert clouds bodeful of despair
To silver-suited omens good and fair. 

It cannot be that in the muse's bower
Are men who bartering for their private gain
The lustre of that ancient house would stain
And following those who still for place and power
Are striving forfeit all the beauteous dower
Bequeathed them--and the virtues' peaceful train
Desert and wisdom with her countenance plain
And meek and learning through the midnight hour
Still in his studious hermitage.
Who then
Seeing the muse's haunts by ruthless feet
Are trodden and by bold and violent men
Would wonder if the bard for scenes more meet
For the lone valley and the quiet glen
Should quit each venal hall and crowded street?

Rise Genoa rise in beauty from the sea
Old Doria's blood is flowing in thy veins!
Rise peerless in thy beauty! what remains
Of thy old glory is enough for me.
Flow then ye emerald waters bright and free
And breathe ye orange groves along her plains
Ye fountains sparkle through her marble fanes:
And hang aloft thou rich and purple sky
Hang up thy gorgeous canopy: thou Sun
Shine on her marble palaces that gleam
Like silver in thy never-dying beam:
Think of the years of glory she has won
She must not sink before her race is run
Nor her long age of conquest seem a dream.

Look upward on yon desolated pile
And as you mark its ruins lone and grey
Mourn not O mourn not for its long decay!
But see how gentle Nature with a smile
Sweet as a mother's anxious to beguile
Her infant to her bosom gone astray
Calls on the ocean-gales from yonder bay
To breathe upon its mouldering towers
the while
The fox-glove and the wild flower o'er the walls
Drop silently their seeds
and sun and rain
And summer dews with fairy hands unchain
Each granite link
and then anon it falls
Obedient to that voice which once again
So tenderly her offspring lost recalls.

Arraigned poor captive at the bar I stand
The bar of beauty bar to all my joys
And up I hold my ever-trembling hand
Wishing or life or death to end annoys.
And when the judge doth question of the guilt
And bids me speak then sorrow shuts up words.
Yea though he say Speak boldly what thou wilt
Yet my confused affects no speech affords.
For why alas my passions have no bound
For fear of death that penetrates so near
And still one grief another doth confound
Yet doth at length a way to speech appear.
Then for I speak too late the judge doth give
His sentence that in prison I shall live.

Compare me to the child that plays with fire
Or to the fly that dieth in the flame
Or to the foolish boy that did aspire
To touch the glory of high heaven's frame
Compare me to Leander struggling in the waves
Not able to attain his safety's shore
Or to the sick that do expect their graves
Or to the captive crying evermore
Compare me to the weeping wounded hart
Moaning with tears the period of his life
Or to the boar that will not feel his smart
When he is stricken with the butcher's knife:
No man to these can fitly me compare
These live to die I die to live in care.

Care-charmer sleep sweet ease in restless misery
The captive's liberty and his freedom's song
Balm of the bruised heart man's chief felicity
Brother of quiet death when life is too too long!
A comedy it is and now an history
What is not sleep unto the feeble mind!
It easeth him that toils and him that's sorry
It makes the deaf to hear to see the blind.
Ungentle sleep thou helpest all but me
For when I sleep my soul is vexe'd most.
It is Fidessa that doth master thee
If she approach alas thy power is lost.
But here she is. See how he runs amain!
I fear at night he will not come again.

Fly to her heart hover about her heart
With dainty kisses mollify her heart
Pierce with thy arrows her obdurate heart
With sweet allurements ever move her heart
At mid-day and at midnight touch her heart
Be lurking closely nestle about her heart
With power (thou art a god) command her heart
Kindle thy coals of love about her heart
Yea even into thyself transform her heart.
Ah she must love! Be sure thou have her heart
And I must die if thou have not her heart
Thy bed if thou rest well must be her heart
He hath the best part sure that hath the heart.
What have I not if I have but her heart! 

I have not spent the April of my time
The sweet of youth in plotting in the air
But do at first adventure seek to climb
Whilst flowers of blooming years are green and fair.
I am no leaving of all-withering age
I have not suffered many winter lours
I feel no storm unless my love do rage
And then in grief I spend both days and hours.
This yet doth comfort that my flower lasted
Until it did approach my sun too near
And then alas untimely was it blasted
So soon as once thy beauty did appear.
But after all my comfort rests in this
That for thy sake my youth decayed is.

Fair is my love that feeds among the lilies
The lilies growing in that pleasant garden
Where Cupid's mount that well beloved hill is
And where that little god himself is warden.
See where my love sits in the beds of spices
Beset all round with camphor myrrh and roses
And interlaced with curious devices
Which her from all the world apart incloses.
There doth she tune her lute for her delight
And with sweet music makes the ground to move
Whilst I poor I do sit in heavy plight
Wailing alone my unrespected love
Not daring rush into so rare a place
That gives to her and she to it a grace. 

Tell me of love sweet Love who is thy sire?
Or if thou mortal or immortal be
Some say thou art begotten by desire
Nourished with hope and fed with fantasy
Engendered by a heavenly goddess' eye
Lurking most sweetly in an angel's face
Others that beauty thee doth deify-
O sovereign beauty full of power and grace!
But I must be absurd all this denying
Because the fairest fair alive ne'er knew thee.
Now Cupid comes thy godhead to the trying:
'Twas she alone (such is her power) that slew me.
She shall be love and thou a foolish boy
Whose virtue proves thy power but a toy.

Work work apace you blessed sisters three
In restless twining of my fatal thread.
O let your nimble hands at once agree
To weave it out and cut it off with speed.
Then shall my vexed and tormented ghost
Have quiet passage to the Elysian rest
And sweetly over death and fortune boast
In everlasting triumphs with the blest.
But ah too well I know you have conspired
A lingering death for him that loatheth life
As if with woes he never could be tired
For this you hide your all-dividing knife.
One comfort yet the heavens have assigned me
That I must die and leave my griefs behind me.

If great Apollo offered as a dower
His burning throne to beauty's excellence
If Jove himself came in a golden shower
Down to the earth to fetch fair Io thence
If Venus in the curled locks were tied
Of proud Adonis not of gentle kind
If Tellus for a shepherd's favor died
The favor cruel love to her assigned
If heaven's winged herald Hermes had
His heart enchanted with a country maid
If poor Pygmalion were for beauty mad
If gods and men have all for beauty strayed:
I am not then ashamed to be included
'Mongst those that love and be with love deluded.

The outward world for rugged toil designed
Where Evil from true Good the crown hath riven
Hath been to men's dominion ever given
But woman's empire holier more refined
Moulds moves and sways the fallen yet God-breathed mind
Lifting the earth-crushed heart to hope and heaven.
As plants put forth to summer's gentle wind
And 'neath the sweet soft light of starry even
Those treasures which the tyrant winter's sway
Could never wrest from nature--so the soul
Will woman's sweet and tender power obey
Thus doth her summer smile its strength control
Her love sows flowers along life's thorny way
Her star-bright faith leads up towards heaven's goal.
October's gold is dim--the forests rot
The weary rain falls ceaseless while the day
Is wrapp'd in damp. In mire of village way
The hedge-row leaves are stamped
and all forgot
The broodless nest sits visible in the thorn.
Autumn among her drooping marigolds
Weeps all her garnered sheaves and empty folds
And dripping orchards--plundered and forlorn.
The season is a dead one and I die!
No more no more for me the Spring shall make
A resurrection in the earth and take
The death from out her heart--O God I die!
The cold throat-mist creeps nearer till I breathe
Corruption. Drop stark night upon my death!

Happy ye leaves! whenas those lily hands
Which hold my life in their dead doing might
Shall handle you and hold in love's soft bands
Like captives trembling at the victor's sight.
And happy lines! on which with starry light
Those lamping eyes will deign sometimes to look
And read the sorrows of my dying sprite
Written with tears in heart's close bleeding book.
And happy rhymes! bathed in the sacred brook
Of Helicon whence she derived is
When ye behold that angel's blessed look
My soul's long lacked food my heaven's bliss.
Leaves lines and rhymes seek her to please alone
Whom if ye please I care for other none.

Most glorious Lord of life that on this day
Didst make thy triumph over death and sin
And having harrowed hell didst bring away
Captivity thence captive us to win:
This joyous day dear Lord with joy begin
And grant that we for whom thou diddest die
Being with thy dear blood clean washed from sin
May live forever in felicity:
And that thy love we weighing worthily
May likewise love thee for the same again
And for thy sake that all like dear didst buy
May love with one another entertain.
So let us love dear love like as we ought
Love is the lesson which the Lord us taught.

One day I wrote her name upon the strand
But came the waves and washed it away:
Again I wrote it with a second hand
But came the tide and made my pains his prey.
Vain man said she that dost in vain assay
A mortal thing so to immortalize!
For I myself shall like to this decay
And eek my name be wiped out likewise.
Not so (quoth I) let baser things devise
To die in dust but you shall live by fame:
My verse your virtues rare shall eternize
And in the heavens write your glorious name
Where whenas death shall all the world subdue
Our love shall live and later life renew.

Fair is my love when her fair golden hairs
With the loose wind ye waving chance to mark:
Fair when the rose in her red cheeks appears
Or in her eyes the fire of love does spark:
Fair when her breast like a rich laden bark
With precious merchandise she forth doth lay:
Fair when that cloud of pride which oft doth dark
Her goodly light with smiles she drives away
But fairest she when so she doth display
The gate with pearls and rubies richly dight
Through which her words so wise do make their way
To bear the message of her gentle sprite.
The rest be works of nature's wonderment
But this the work of heart's astonishment.

I saw Time in his workshop carving faces
Scattered around his tools lay blunting griefs
Sharp cares that cut out deeply in reliefs
Of light and shade
sorrows that smooth the traces
Of what were smiles. Nor yet without fresh graces
His handiwork for ofttimes rough were ground
And polished oft the pinched made smooth and round
The calm look too the impetuous fire replaces.
Long time I stood and watched
with hideous grin
He took each heedless face between his knees
And graved and scarred and bleached with boiling tears.
I wondering turned to go when lo! my skin
Feels crumpled and in glass my own face sees
Itself all changed scarred careworn white with years.

O little hands long vanished in the night--
Sweet fairy hands that were my treasure here--
My heart is full of music from some sphere
Where ye make melody for God's delight.
Though autumn clouds obscure the starry height
And winds are noisy and the land is drear
In this blank room I feel my lost love near
And hear you playing--hands so small and white.
The shadowy organ sings its songs again
The dead years turn to music at its voice
And all the dreams come back my brain did store.
Once more dear hands ye soothe me in my pain
Once more your music makes my heart rejoice--
God speed the day we clasp for evermore!

These mountains reign alone they do not share
The transitory life of woods and streams
Wrapt in the deep solemnity of dreams
They drain the sunshine of the upper air.
Beneath their peaks the huge clouds here and there
Take counsel of the wind which all night screams
Through grey burnt forests where the moonlight beams
On hidden lakes and rocks worn smooth and bare.
These mountains once throned in some primal sea
Shook half the world with thunder and the sun
Pierced not the gloom that clung about their crest
Now with sealed lips toilers from toil set free
Unvexed by fate the part they played being done
They watch and wait in venerable rest.

Ah Life! that mystery that no man knows
And all men ask the Arab from his sands
The Caesar's self lifting imperial hands
And the lone dweller where the lotus blows
O'er trackless tropics and o'er silent snows
She dumbly broods that Sphinx of all the lands
And if she answers no man understands
And no cry breaks the blank of her repose.
But a new form dawned once upon my pain
With grave sad lips yet in the eyes a smile
Of deepest meaning dawning sweet and slow
Lighting to service and no more in vain
I ask of Life "What art thou?" as erewhile
For since Love holds my hand I seem to know.

Straight remnant of the spiry birchen bough
That over the streamlet wont perchance to quake
Thy many twinkling leaves and bending low
Beheld thy white rind dancing on the lake--
How doth thy present state poor stick! awake
My pathos--for alas! even stripped as thou
May be my beating breast if ever forsake
Philisto this poor heart
and break his vow.
So musing on I fare with many a sigh
And meditating then on times long past
To thee lorn pole! I look with tearful eye
As all beside the floor-soiled pail thou art cast
And my sad thoughts while I behold thee twirled
Turn on the twistings of this troublous world.

I read of 'Julian' and 'Count Maddalo'
Till in their spirits' presence stood my soul
And blending with their sympathy of woe
A tempest woke my thoughts and they gan roll
Billow on billow toward eternity--
And passion's cloud hung over the vast sea.
Where is the essence now that thought and spoke?
Absorbed like water the frail vessel broke
That held it trembling from the sand awhile?
Or doth it quiver still
and quivering smile
At the now cleared-up mystery of creation?
Which shook it once even to its mortal seat
Which seems the brain and heart that burn and beat
Till life pants darkly for annihilation.

My piercd life was all ablood with sorrow
For suddenly the veil of beauty thrown
By glorifying youth over sweet to-morrow
Fell and disclosed to me the future's frown
Within the wrinkles of whose unread brow
There was a lurking something which till then
I dreamed not hung before the lives of men
Ready to fall upon them as they grow
Into the longer knowledge of brief years:
Blank vacancy
and doubt
and strangled tears
That never reach the eyelids
vanishing
Of all sweet things we love
death-beds
and graves
And shadowy wrecks where pale hopes trembling cling
Heart-faint and stifled by continual waves!

I saw you starting for another war
The emblem of adventure and of youth
So that men trembled saying: "He forsooth
Has gone has gone and shall return no more."
And then out there they told me you were dead
Taken and killed
how was it that I knew
Whatever else was true that was not true?
And then I saw you pale upon your bed
Scarcely two years ago when you were sent
Back from the margin of the dim abyss
For Death had sealed you with a warning kiss
And let you go to meet a nobler fate:
To fight for hearth and home O fortunate
To die in battle with your regiment. 

What is indifference do you ask of me?
O well I know the meaning of the phrase.
It is to find grey ash instead of blaze
That warmed you once
to lose alas! the key
Which turned in friendship's wards
to sometime see
The eyes that shone for you in other days
Now coldly meet your own in passing gaze
To know that what has been no more shall be. It is to find that you in naught believe
To know that youth has fled far down the past
To feel that hope will ne'er again be born
And love is but a poor worn cheat at last.
It is all this yet not for this to grieve--
To live and heed not that one lives forlorn! 

Nay friend farewell! for if I loved you less
It might be I should strive to hold you fast
In bonds of friendship you had long o'erpast
And play the tyrant where I hoped to bless.
Yet since my love still pleads I fain would press
Once more your hand e'en while I seem to cast
It coldly from me with these words at last--
I may not keep and you may not possess!
Sweet friend believe me it is better so--
To part while love finds yet no cause for grief
In slowly-waning faith lest haply you
Should one day find some flaw in me you knew
Not of and I through tears should watch you go
Knowing your soul in mine had lost belief.

Now God be thanked Who has watched us with His hour
And caught our youth and wakened us from sleeping
With hand made sure clear eye and sharpened power
To turn as swimmers into cleanness leaping
Glad from a world grown old and cold and weary
Leave the sick hearts that honour could not move
And half-men and their dirty songs and dreary
And all the little emptiness of love!
Oh! we who have known shame we have found release there
Where there's no ill no grief but sleep has mending
Naught broken save this body lost but breath
Nothing to shake the laughing heart's long peace there
But only agony and that has ending
And the worst friend and enemy is but Death. 

Dear! of all happy in the hour most blest
He who has found our hid security
Assured in the dark tides of the world that rest
And heard our word 'Who is so safe as we?'
We have found safety with all things undying
The winds and morning tears of men and mirth
The deep night and birds singing and clouds flying
And sleep and freedom and the autumnal earth.
We have built a house that is not for Time's throwing.
We have gained a peace unshaken by pain for ever.
War knows no power. Safe shall be my going
Secretly armed against all death's endeavour
Safe though all safety's lost
safe where men fall
And if these poor limbs die safest of all.

Blow out you bugles over the rich Dead!
There's none of these so lonely and poor of old
But dying has made us rarer gifts than gold.
These laid the world away
poured out the red
Sweet wine of youth
gave up the years to be
Of work and joy and that unhoped serene
That men call age
and those who would have been
Their sons they gave their immortality.
Blow bugles blow! They brought us for our dearth
Holiness lacked so long and Love and Pain.
Honour has come back as a king to earth
And paid his subjects with a royal wage
And Nobleness walks in our ways again
And we have come into our heritage.

These hearts were woven of human joys and cares
Washed marvellously with sorrow swift to mirth.
The years had given them kindness. Dawn was theirs
And sunset and the colours of the earth.
These had seen movements and heard music
known
Slumber and waking
loved
gone proudly friended
Felt the quick stir of wonder
sat alone
Touched flowers and furs and cheeks. All this is ended.
There are waters blown by changing winds to laughter
And lit by the rich skies all day. And after
Frost with a gesture stays the waves that dance
And wandering loveliness. He leaves a white
Unbroken glory a gathered radiance
A width a shining peace under the night. 

If I should die think only this of me:
That there's some corner of a foreign field
That is for ever England. There shall be
In that rich earth a richer dust concealed
A dust whom England bore shaped made aware
Gave once her flowers to love her ways to roam
A body of England's breathing English air
Washed by the rivers blest by suns of home.
And think this heart all evil shed away
A pulse in the eternal mind no less
Gives somewhere back the thoughts by England given
Her sights and sounds
dreams happy as her day
And laughter learnt of friends
and gentleness

What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?
Only the monstrous anger of the guns.
Only the stuttering rifles' rapid rattle
Can patter out their hasty orisons.
No mockeries now for them
no prayers nor bells
Nor any voice of mourning save the choirs--
The shrill demented choirs of wailing shells
And bugles calling for them from sad shires.
What candles may be held to speed them all?
Not in the hands of boys but in their eyes
Shall shine the holy glimmers of good-byes.
The pallor of girls' brows shall be their pall
Their flowers the tenderness of patient minds
And each slow dusk a drawing-down of blinds. 

Be slowly lifted up thou long black arm
Great gun towering towards Heaven about to curse
Sway steep against them and for years rehearse
Huge imprecations like a blasting charm!
Reach at that Arrogance which needs thy harm
And beat it down before its sins grow worse
Spend our resentment cannon--yea disburse
Our gold in shapes of flame our breaths in storm.
Yet for men's sakes whom thy vast malison
Must wither innocent of enmity
Be not withdrawn dark arm thy spoilure done
Safe to the bosom of our prosperity.
But when thy spell be cast complete and whole
May God curse thee and cut thee from our soul! 

After the blast of lightning from the east
The flourish of loud clouds the Chariot Throne
After the drums of time have rolled and ceased
And by the bronze west long retreat is blown
Shall Life renew these bodies? Of a truth
All death will he annul all tears assuage?-
Or fill these void veins full again with youth
And wash with an immortal water Age?
When I do ask white Age he saith not so:
'My head hangs weighed with snow.'
And when I hearken to the Earth she saith:
'My fiery heart shrinks aching. It is death.
Mine ancient scars shall not be glorified
Nor my titanic tears the seas be dried.' 

Soldiers are citizens of death's gray land
Drawing no dividend from time's tomorrows.
In the great hour of destiny they stand
Each with his feuds and jealousies and sorrows
Soldiers are sworn to action
they must win
Some flaming fatal climax with their lives.
Soldiers are dreamers
when the guns begin
They think of firelit homes clean beds and wives.
I see them in foul dugouts gnawed by rats
And in the ruined trenches lashed with rain
Dreaming of things they did with balls and bats
And mocked by hopeless longing to regain
Bank holidays and picture shows and spats
And going to the office in the train.

You love us when we're heroes home on leave
Or wounded in a mentionable place.
You worship decorations
you believe
That chivalry redeems the war's disgrace.
You make us shells. You listen with delight
By tales of dirt and danger fondly thrilled.
You crown our distant ardours while we fight
And mourn our laurelled memories when we're killed.
You can't believe that British troops 'retire'
When hell's last horror breaks them and they run
Trampling the terrible corpses--blind with blood.
O German mother dreaming by the fire
While you are knitting socks to send your son
His face is trodden deeper in the mud. Remorse
Lost in the swamp and welter of the pit
He flounders off the duck-boards
only he knows
Each flash and spouting crash--each instant lit
When gloom reveals the streaming rain. He goes
Heavily blindly on. And while he blunders
"Could anything be worse than this?"--he wonders
Remembering how he saw those Germans run
Screaming for mercy among the stumps of trees:
Green-faced they dodged and darted: there was one
Livid with terror clutching at his knees. . .
Our chaps were sticking 'em like pigs . . . "O hell!"
He thought--"there's things in war one dare not tell
Poor father sitting safe at home who reads
Of dying heroes and their deathless deeds." 

You've heard me scornful harsh and discontented
Of my old silly sweetness I've repented--
You are aware that once I sought the Grail
And it was told that through my infant wail
But now I've said good-bye to Galahad
For lust and senseless hatred make me glad
Wound for red wound I burn to smite their wrongs
And there is absolution in my songs.

When you see millions of the mouthless dead
Across your dreams in pale battalions go
Say not soft things as other men have said
That you'll remember. For you need not so.
Give them not praise. For deaf how should they know
It is not curses heaped on each gashed head?
Nor tears. Their blind eyes see not your tears flow.
Nor honour. It is easy to be dead.
Say only this 'They are dead.' Then add thereto
'Yet many a better one has died before.'
Then scanning all the o'ercrowded mass should you
Perceive one face that you loved heretofore
It is a spook. None wears the face you knew.
Great death has made all his for evermore. 

She was a city of patience
of proud name
Dimmed by neglecting Time
of beauty and loss
Of acquiescence in the creeping moss.
But on a sudden fierce destruction came
Tigerishly pouncing: thunderbolt and flame
Showered on her streets to shatter them and toss
Her ancient towers to ashes. Riven across
She rose dead into never-dying fame.
White against heavens of storm a ghost she is known
To the world's ends. The myriads of the brave
Sleep round her. Desolately glorified
She moon-like draws her own far-moving tide
Of sorrow and memory
toward her each alone
Glide the dark dreams that seek an English grave. 

I walked in loamy Wessex lanes afar
From rail-track and from highway and I heard
In field and farmstead many an ancient word
Of local lineage like "Thu bist" "Er war"
"Ich woll" "Er sholl" and by-talk similar
Nigh as they speak who in this month's moon gird
At England's very loins thereunto spurred
By gangs whose glory threats and slaughters are.
Then seemed a Heart crying: "Whosoever they be
At root and bottom of this who flung this flame
Between folk kin tongued even as are we
"Sinister ugly lurid be their fame
May their familiars grow to shun their name
And their brood perish everlastingly." 

Brothers in blood! They who this wrong began
To wreck our commonwealth will rue the day
When first they challenged freemen to the fray
And with the Briton dared the American.
Now are we pledged to win the Rights of man
Labor and Justice now shall have their way
And in a League of Peace--God grant we may--
Transform the earth not patch up the old plan.
Sure is our hope since he who led your nation
Spake for mankind and ye arose in awe
Of that high call to work the world's salvation
Clearing your minds of all estranging blindness
In the vision of Beauty and the Spirit's law
Freedom and Honor and sweet Loving kindness. 

You whose forebodings have been all fulfilled
You who have heard the bell seen the boy stand
Holding the flimsy message in his hand
While through your heart the fiery question thrilled
"Wounded or killed which which?"--and it was "Killed--"
And in a kind of trance have read it numb
But conscious that the dreaded hour was come
No dream this dream wherewith your blood was chilled--
Oh brothers in calamity unknown
Companions in the order of black loss
Lift up your hearts for your are not alone
And let our sombre hosts together bring
Their sorrows to the shadow of the Cross
And learn the fellowship of suffering.

In sodden trenches I have heard men speak
Though numb and wretched wise and witty things
And loved them for the stubbornness that clings
Longest to laughter when Death's pulleys creak
And seeing cool nurses move on tireless feet
To do abominable things with grace
Deemed them sweet sisters in that haunted place
Where with child's voices strong men howl or bleat.
Yet now those men lay stubborn courage by
Riding dull-eyed and silent in the train
To old men's stools
or sell gay-coloured socks
And listen fearfully for Death
so I
Love the low-laughing girls who now again
Go daintily in thin and flowery frocks.

If you should die think only this of me
In that still quietness where is space for thought
Where parting loss and bloodshed shall not be
And men may rest themselves and dream of nought:
That in some place a mystic mile away
One whom you loved has drained the bitter cup
Till there is nought to drink
has faced the day
Once more and now has raised the standard up.
And think my son with eyes grown clear and dry
She lives as though for ever in your sight
Loving the things you loved with heart aglow
For country honour truth traditions high
--Proud that you paid their price. (And if some night
Her heart should break--well lad you will not know. 

In the first watch no death but made us mourn
Now tearless eyes run down the daily roll
Whose names are written in the book of death
For sealed are now the springs of tears as when
The tropic sun makes dry the torrent's course
After the rains. They are too many now
For mortal eyes to weep and none can see
But God alone the Thing itself and live.
We look to seaward and behold a cry!
To skyward and they fall as stricken birds
On autumn fields
and earth cries out its toll
From the Great River to the world's end--toll
Of dead and maimed and lost
we dare not stay
Tears are not endless and we have no more. 

Indifferent flippant earnest but all bored
The doctors sit in the glare of electric light
Watching the endless stream of naked white
Bodies of men for whom their hasty award
Means life or death maybe or the living death
Of mangled limbs blind eyes or a darkened brain
And the chairman as his monocle falls again
Pronounces each doom with easy indifferent breath.
Then suddenly I shudder as I see
A young man stand before them wearily
Cadaverous as one already dead
But still they stare untroubled as he stands
With arms outstretched and drooping thorn-crowned head
The nail-marks glowing in his feet and hands. 

I dreamt last night Christ came to earth again
To bless His own. My soul from place to place
On her dream-quest sped seeking for His face
Through temple and town and lovely land in vain.
Then came I to a place where death and pain
Had made of God's sweet world a waste forlorn
With shattered trees and meadows gashed and torn
Where the grim trenches scarred the shell-sheared plain.
And through that Golgotha of blood and clay
Where watchers cursed the sick dawn heavy-eyed
There (in my dream) Christ passed upon His way
Where His cross marks their nameless graves who died
Slain for the world's salvation where all day
For others' sake strong men are crucified. 

"At least it wasn't your fault" I hear them console
When they come back the few that will come back.
I feel those handshakes now. "Well on the whole
You didn't miss much. I wish I had your knack
Of stopping out. You still can call your soul
Your own at any rate. What a priceless slack
You've had old chap. It must have been top-hole.
How's poetry? I bet you've written a stack."
What shall I say? That it's been damnable?
That all the time my soul was never my own?
That we've slaved hard at endless make-believe?
It isn't only actual war that's hell
I'll say. It's spending youth and hope alone
Among pretences that have ceased to deceive.

I watched the boys of England where they went
Through mud and water to do appointed things.
See one a stake and one wire-netting brings
And one comes slowly under a burden bent
Of ammunition. Though the strength be spent
They "carry on" under the shadowing wings
Of Death the ever-present. And hark one sings
Although no joy from the grey skies be lent.
Are these the heroes--these? have kept from you
The power of primal savagery so long?
Shall break the devil's legions? These they are
Who do in silence what they might boast to do
In the height of battle tell the world in song
How they do hate and fear the face of War.

The sky grown dull through many waiting days
Flashed into crimson with the sunrise charm
So all my love aroused to vague alarm
Flushed into fire and burned with eager blaze.
I saw thee not as supplant with still gaze
Of pleading but as victor--and thine arm
Gathered me fast into embraces warm
And I was taught the light of Love's dear ways.
This day of triumph is no longer thine
O conqueror in calm exclusive power.
As evermore through storm and shade and shine
Your woe my pain your joy my ecstasy
We breathe together--so this blessed hour
Of self-surrender makes my jubilee!

Let me not lay the lightest feather's weight
Of duty upon Love. Let not my own
The breath of one reluctant kiss be blown
Between our hearts. I would not be the gate
That bars like some inexorable fate
The portals of thy life
that says "Alone
Through me shall any joy to thee be known"
Rather the window fragrant early and late
With thy sweet clinging thoughts that grow and twine
Around me like some bright and blooming vine:
Through which the sun shall shed his wealth on thee
In golden showers
through which thou may'st look out
Exulting in all beauty without doubt
Or fear or shadow of regret from me. 

Great cities that defied Time's power are dust
And mighty temples ruins
yet this gem
Seeming a fragile thing outliveth them.
Its beauty bears no trace of Time's keen thrust
Undimmed the marvellous lustre that doth trust
To none its secret
every delicate line
Glows with immortal freshness and divine
That fears no ravage of decay or rust.
How infinite is art! A magic glass
This tiny chiselled disk becomes to me:
Greece and her glories rise and shine and pass
Before my dazzled eyes
then fade to wan
And spectral shores where the Aegean Sea
Guards the lone ruins of the Parthenon.

I woke and heard the thrushes sing at dawn
A strangely blissful burst of melody
A chant of rare exultant certainty
Fragrant as springtime breaths of wood and lawn.
Night's eastern curtains still were closely drawn
No roseate flush predicted pomps to be
Or spoke of morning loveliness to me
But for those happy birdsthe night was gone!
Darkling they sang nor guessed what care consumes
Man's questioning spirit
heedless of decay
They sang of joy and dew-embalmd blooms.
My doubts grew still doubts seemed so poor while they
Sweet worshipers of light from leafy glooms
Poured forth transporting prophecies of day.

Let me believe you love or let me die!
If on your faith I may not rest secure
Beyond all chance of peradvenure sure
Trusting your half avowals sweet and shy
As trusts the lark the pallid dawn-lit sky
Then would I rather in some grave obscure
Repose forlorn than living on endure
A question each dear transport to belie.
It is a pain to thirst and do without
A pain to suffer what we deem unjust
To win a joy and lay it in the dust
But there's a fiercer painthe pain of doubt:
From other griefs Death sets the spirit free:
Doubt steals the light from immortality!

As a wan weaver in an attic dim
Hopeless yet patient so he may be fed
With scanty store of sorrow-seasoned bread
Heareth a blithe bird carol over him
And sees no longer walls and rafters grim
But rural lanes where little feet are led
Through springing flowers fields with clover spread
Clouds swan-like that o'er depths of azure swim
So when upon our earth-dulled ear new breaks
Some fragment Sappho of thy skyey song
A noble wonder in our souls awakes
The deathless Beautiful draws strangely nigh
And we look up and marvel how so long
We were content to drudge for sordid joys that die.

Look how the pale queen of the silent night
Doth cause the ocean to attend upon her
And he as long as she is in his sight
With her full tide is ready her to honor.
But when the silver waggon of the moon
Is mounted up so high he cannot follow
The sea calls home his crystal waves to moan
And with low ebb doth manifest his sorrow.
So you that are the sovereign of my heart
Have all my joys attending on your will
My joys low-ebbing when you do depart
When you return their tide my heart doth fill.
So as you come and as you do depart
Joys ebb and flow within my tender heart.

The wise Ulysses honored once of Kings
When he a beggar sat at his own gate
Had still three friends who loved him as when great--
And each to man like his own shadow clings.
No change in them from change of fortune springs
Wealth poverty lofty or low estate
Fame infamy by his own faults or fate
These all they look on as indifferent things.
Ill-treatment sours not them--harsh words are breath
Or still they love even if they moan and mope
And will be parted from him but by death
Cheerfully he may with misfortune cope
And find some flowers even in life's dreariest path
Who still has left his Wife--his Dog--and Hope!

What numerous tribes beneath thy shadowy wing
O mild and modest evening find delight!
First to the grove his lingering fair to bring
The warm and youthful lover hating light
Sighs oft for thee. And next the boisterous string
Of school-imps freed from dame's all-dreaded sight
Round village cross in many a wanton ring
Wishes thy stay. Then too with vasty might
From steeple's side to urge the bounding ball
The lusty hinds await thy fragrant call.
I general friend by turns am joined with all
Lover and elfin gay and harmless hind
Nor heed the proud to real wisdom blind
So as my heart be pure and free my mind.

Around my porch and lonely casement spread
The myrtle never sear and gadding vine
With fragrant sweetbriar love to intertwine
And in my garden's box-encircled bed
The pansy pied and musk-rose white and red
The pink the lily chaste and sweet woodbine
Fling odours round: thick woven eglantine
Decks my trim fence
in which by silence led
The wren hath wisely built her mossy cell
Sheltered from storms in courtly land so rife
And nestles over her young and warbles well.
'Tis here with innocence in peaceful glen
I pass my blameless moments far from men
Nor wishing death too soon nor asking life. 

It is not for Muse like mine in rude essay
To paint the beauties of thy classic page
Which ay deserve far other patronage
Than the small meed sincere she fain would pay
Of verse grave eulogy or distich gay
For that thou deignst inform this sapient age
What ere was whilom told by tuneful sage
Or harped in hall or bower on solemn day
But more for that thy skill the minstrel throng
Forbids in cold oblivion's arms to lie
Dear long-lost masters of the British song
They shall requite thee better far than I
And other climes and other shades among
Weave thee a laureate wreath that never shall die. 

Cold is the senseless heart that never strove
With the mild tumult of a real flame
Rugged the breast that beauty cannot tame
Nor youth's enlivening graces teach to love.
The pathless vale the long forsaken grove
The rocky cave that bears the fair one's name
With ivy mantled over. For empty fame
Let him amidst the rabble toil or rove
For plunder far to western clime.
Give me to waste the hours in amorous play
With Delia beauteous maid
or build the rhyme
Praising her flowing hair her snowy arms
And all that prodigality of charms
Formed to enslave my heart and grace my lay.
Oh fatal dream! what forms of dire dismay!
Frantic I range beneath the damps of night--
I sat methought where death and pale affright
On Clara frowned
--I saw the subtle ray
Of life recede
--the loved the lovely lay
Convulsed with pain
--no more her eyes were bright
Her soul the gentle mansion of delight
Was reft
the beauteous frame was turned to clay.
With piercing shrieks I tore the silent gloom
Of awful night
the cruel phantom fled.
Yet scarce will fear my waking senses trust
Still still it paints thy beauties turned to dust.
O Clara Clara wert thou with the dead
Thy lover soon would follow to the tomb.
Lear and Cordelia! 't was an ancient tale
Before thy Shakespeare gave it deathless fame:
The times have changed the moral is the same.
So like an outcast dowerless and pale
Thy daughter went
and in a foreign gale
Spread her young banner till its sway became
A wonder to the nations. Days of shame
Are close upon thee: prophets raise their wail.
When the rude Cossack with an outstretched hand
Points his long spear across the narrow sea--
"Lo there is England!" when thy destiny
Storms on thy straw-crowned head and thou dost stand
Weak helpless mad a by-word in the land--
God grant thy daughter a Cordelia be! II
Stand thou great bulwark of man's liberty!
Thou rock of shelter rising from the wave
Sole refuge to the overwearied brave
Who planned arose and battled to be free
Fell undeterred then sadly turned to thee
Saved the free spirit from their country's grave
To rise again and animate the slave
When God shall ripen all things. Britons ye
Who guard the sacred outpost not in vain
Hold your proud peril! Freemen undefiled
Keep watch and ward! Let battlements be piled
Around your cliffs
fleets marshalled till the main
Sinks under them
and if your courage wane
Through force or fraud look westward to your child.

Where is my merit? By what special grace
Am I so blessed above all other men?
I have some fancy and the art to pen
A halting sonnet to thy perfect face.
But what of that? The thrush or twittering wren
Makes sweeter music from his resting-place.
No outward beauty in my life I trace.
No thought or deed heroical
and when
My eyes turn inward I am stricken blind
At the abyss of weakness folly sin
That like a miner's shaft sinks far within
My darkened nature. Nowhere can I find
Cause for thy love. Rest rest my troubled mind!
Where reason stops let soaring faith begin.

I strive to live my life in whitest truth
Even in the face of this deceitful world
And if in errors I am caught and whirled
From the fair courses of my candid youth
I view my trespasses with thoughtful ruth
And the poor mummer's scornful lip is curled
And a low curse indignantly is hurled
At arts which others blindly take as sooth.
But when I enter thy pure presence Sweet
I come as one into a holy shrine.
I taste the mystic wafer and the wine
And fraud and falsehood from my heart retreat.
Through thy divinity I grow divine
And my world's mask lies empty at thy feet.

Nothing is stable. Though the deeds we do
May bind the nations in a servile chain
And give to cowering slaves their joy and pain
The far result still frowns in open view.
A little wound will let great Caesar through
An asp make Egypt's dusky charmer plain
And all the power and beauty that remain
Go shivering naked up the mystic blue.
Earth smiles at tyrants when the crown is laid
Upon the coffin and their history
To after times with laughter is displayed.
Death and oblivion are the proudest fee
Of men's endeavor
and the delver's spade
Rounds all our hillocks fair and evenly.

When with the courage lent me by thy smile
I laid my hands upon thy sacred form
Dared passion-wild thy scented mouth to warm
With cleaving kisses unrepelled the while
Was it thy patience or my venturous guile
Shook virtue's outworks with a fiery storm
And made her guards the trembling ramparts swarm
To meet a foe who came in friendly stile?
I know not Love
but since that trustful day
I grow more careful of myself less stained
By wor[l]dly touch as though that touch profaned.
I am all thine more like thee
if thou'lt say
Those kisses brushed thy purese bloom away
Say also this that what thou lost I gained.

Love sat at ease upon Time's bony knee
Pulled his grey beard
paddled his finger-tips
Among his wrinkles
smote his bloodless lips
With rosy palms forbade his eyes to see
O'erturned his fatal hour-glass
wantonly
Pulled his scythe-edge against that dart which rips
The heart of adamant
cast gibes and quips
Straight in his teeth out-mocking mockery.
What said this phantom? Nought
he only smiled
To be thus toyed with
held his wasting breath
Lest he might do some damage to the child
Till Love grown weary of that pastime saith
"This is too tame
my heart with joy is wild
Come Father come! Let us go play with Death!"
Ye jessamines that beneath the lunar ray
Unfold your virgin robes your modest grace
Imparting odours you denied the day
Though day's own light condensed adorns your race!
Ye stars that quivering midst yon azure sky
From forth your circles softened lustre stream
And raise towards you calm devotion's eye
And seed to lonely love a soothing beam
Why cease you now to charm as erst ye did?
Why free from rapture move I now along?
Ye scents ye blooms ye stars in vain ye bid
Your soft enchantments round my senses throng--
For she is lost who greeted all your powers
She breathes no more who loved your pensive hours!
Soul of the far but unforgotten past!
Queen of the sword and lady of the lyre!
Spirit of thoughts too high of deeds too vast
To fear like clay the waste of flood and fire
Or darkly perish on oblivion's pyre--
Whence like the birds from Memnon's pile they spring
Born from the dust but not with years to tire
Or furl in death the everlasting wing!
Teach me Oh! teach me but for once to fling
My hand thy own triumphal harp along--
To strike one strain whose echoes yet may ring
Above the spot where rests a friend of song!--
Do I but dream the laurel yet may wave
Memorial verdure over its votary's grave?

When to the winds the firm oak's stately form
Sways while each branch is as an organ-key
Dashed to mad music by the frantic storm
And swells the full tremendous melody
I love amid the sounding woods to be
And with a stern and solemn rapture hear
The straining forest's thunder--it is to me
An hour of awful bliss and glorious fear!--
But wilder stranger still swells on the ear
That shrill sound heard amid the tempest's pause
As it were a phantom's whisper deep yet clear
While its dread breath anew the spent blast draws.
Sounds not that voice which makes the listener pale
Like some lone forest-spirit's desolate wail?
'Tis solemn darkness
the sublime of shade
Night by no stars nor rising moon relieved
The awful blank of nothingness arrayed
O'er which my eye-balls roll in vain deceived.
Upward around and downward I explore
E'en to the frontiers of the ebon air
But cannot though I strive discover more
Than what seems one huge cavern of despair.
Oh Night art thou so grim when black and bare
Of moonbeams and no cloudlets to adorn
Like a nude Ethiop 'twixt two houris fair
Thou stand'st between the evening and the morn?
I took thee for an angel but have wooed
A cacodaemon in mine ignorant mood.

How great unto the living seem the dead!
How sacred solemn
how heroic grown
How vast and vague as they obscurely tread
The shadowy confines of the dim unknown!--
For they have met the monster that we dread
Have learned the secret not to mortal shown.
E'en as gigantic shadows on the wall
The spirit of the daunted child amaze
So on us thoughts of the departed fall
And with phantasma fill our gloomy gaze.
Awe and deep wonder lend the living lines
And hope and ecstasy the borrowed beams
While fitful fancy the full form divines
And all is what imagination dreams.

Hushed in a calm beyond mine utterance
See in the western sky the evening spread
Suspended in its pale serene expanse
Like scattered flames the glowing cloudlets red.
Clear are those clouds and that pure sky's profound
Transparent as a lake of hyaline
Nor motion nor the faintest breath of sound
Disturbs the steadfast beauty of the scene.
Far o'er the vault the winnowed welkin wide
From the bronzed east unto the whitened west
Moored seem in their sweet tranquil roseate pride
Those clouds the fabled islands of the blest
The lands where pious spirits breathe in joy
And love and worship all their hours employ.

The stars are glittering in the frosty sky
Numerous as pebbles on a broad sea-coast
And o'er the vault the cloud-like galaxy
Has marshalled its innumerable host.
Alive all heaven seems! with wondrous glow
Tenfold refulgent every star appears
As if some wide celestial gale did blow
And thrice illume the ever-kindled spheres.
Orbs with glad orbs rejoicing burning beam
Ray-crowned with lambent lustre in their zones
Till o'er the blue bespangled spaces seem
Angels and great archangels on their thrones
A host divine whose eyes are sparkling gems
And forms more bright than diamond diadems.

See how the Morn awakes. Along the sky
Proceeds she with her pale increasing light
And from the depths of the dim canopy
Drives out the shadows of departing night.
Lo the clouds break and gradually more wide
Morn openeth her bright rejoicing gates
And ever as the orient valves divide
A costlier aspect on their breadth awaits.
Lo the clouds break and in each opened schism
The coming Phoebus lays huge beams of gold
And roseate fire and glories that the prism
Would vainly strive before us to unfold
And while I gaze from out the bright abysm
A flaming disc is to the horizon rolled.

'Twas Sabbath morn. I lay 'neath pensive spell
And saw in reverie or waking dream
My life elapse in likeness of a stream
That in a slant and steady torrent fell
As if it gushed beneath the force supreme
Of some high reservoir or lofty well.
E'en such a stream I saw as from a bank
Verdant with mosses and perpetual dank
I have observed leap forth when heavy rains
Have through the uplands filtered fed earth's veins
To bursting. This I saw with troubled eye
Anticipating when the stream no more
In ceaseless crystalline cascade should pour
But sudden stop or slowly dribble dry.

'Twas on a day and in high radiant heaven
An angel lay beside a lake reclined
Against whose shores the rolling waves were driven
And beat the measure to the dancing wind.
There rapt he meditated on that story
Of how Jehovah did of yore expel
Heaven's aborigines from grace and glory--
Those mighty angels that did dare rebel.
And as he mused upon their dread abode
And endless penance from his drooping hands
His harp sank down and scattered all abroad
Its rosy garland on the golden sands
His soul mute wondering that the All-wise Spirit
Should have allowed the doom of such demerit.

'Twas on a day and in high radiant heaven
An angel lay beside a lake reclined
Against whose shores the rolling waves were driven
And beat the measure to the dancing wind.
There rapt he meditated on that story
Of how Jehovah did of yore expel
Heaven's aborigines from grace and glory--
Those mighty angels that did dare rebel.
And as he mused upon their dread abode
And endless penance from his drooping hands
His harp down sank and scattered all abroad
Its rosy garland on the golden sands
His soul mute wondering that the All-wise Spirit
Should have allowed the doom of such demerit.

The stars are glittering in the frosty sky
Frequent as pebbles on a broad sea-coast
And o'er the vault the cloud-like galaxy
Has marshalled its innumerable host.
Alive all heaven seems! with wondrous glow
Tenfold refulgent every star appears
As if some wide celestial gale did blow
And thrice illume the ever-kindled spheres.
Orbs with glad orbs rejoicing burning beam
Ray-crowned with lambent lustre in their zones
Till o'er the blue bespangled spaces seem
Angels and great archangels on their thrones
A host divine whose eyes are sparkling gems
And forms more bright than diamond diadems.

Hushed in a calm beyond mine utterance
See in the western sky the evening spread
Suspended in its pale serene expanse
Like scattered flames the glowing cloudlets red.
Clear are those clouds
and that pure sky's profound
Transparent as a lake of hyaline
Nor motion nor the faintest breath of sound
Disturb the steadfast beauty of the scene.
Far o'er the vault the winnowed welkin wide
From the bronzed east unto the whitened west
Moored seem in their sweet tranquil roseate pride
Those clouds the fabled islands of the blest
The lands where pious spirits breathe in joy
And love and worship all their hours employ. 

Under this shade of crimson wings abhorred
That never wholly leaves the sky serene
While Vengeance sleeps a sleep so light between
Dominions that acclaim Thee overlord--
Sadly the blast of Thy tremendous word
Whate'er its mystic purport may have been
Echoes across the ages Nazarene:
Not to bring peace Mine errand but a sword.
For lo Thy world uprises and lies down
In armor and its Peace is War in all
Save the great death that weaves War's dreadful crown
War unennobled by heroic pain
War without triumph without glorious fall
War that sits smiling with the eyes of Cain. 

When London's Plague that day by day enrolled
His thousands dead nor deigned his rage to abate
Till grass was green in silent Bishopsgate
Had come and passed like thunder--still 'tis told
The monster driven to earth in hovels old
And haunts obscure though dormant lingered late
Till the dread Fire one roaring wave of fate
Rose and swept clean his last retreat and hold.
In Europe live the dregs of Plague today
Dregs of full many an ancient Plague and dire--
Old wrongs old lies of ages blind and cruel.
What if alone the world-war's world-wide fire
Can purge the ambushed pestilence away?
Yet woe to him that idly lights the fuel!

A moment's fantasy the vision came
Of Europe dipped in fiery death and so
Mounting re-born with vestal limbs aglow
Splendid and fragrant from her bath of flame.
It fleeted
and a phantom without name
Sightless dismembered terrible said: "Lo
I am that ravished Europe men shall know
After the morn of blood and night of shame."
The specter passed and I beheld alone
The Europe of the present as she stands
Powerless from terror of her own vast power
'Neath novel stars beside a brink unknown
And round her the sad Kings with sleepless hands
Piling the fagots hour by doomful hour.
An hour agone and prostrate Nature lay
Like some sore-smitten creature nigh to death
With feverish parched lips with labouring breath
And languid eyeballs darkening to the day.
A burning noontide ruled with merciless sway
Earth wave and air
the ghastly-stretching heath
The sullen trees the fainting flowers beneath
Drooped hopeless shrivelling in the torrid ray
When like a sudden cheerful trumpet blown
Far off by rescuing spirits rose the wind
Urging great hosts of clouds
the thunder's tone
Breaks into wrath
the rainy cataracts fall.
But pausing lo behold Creation shrined
In a new birth--God's covenant clasping all!

The passionate summer's dead! the sky's aglow
With roseate flushes of matured desire
The winds at eve are musical and low
As sweeping chords of a lamenting lyre
Far up among the pillared clouds of fire
Whose pomp of strange procession upward rolls
With gorgeous blazonry of pictured scrolls
To celebrate the summer's past renown
Ah me! how regally the heavens look down
O'ershadowing beautiful autumnal woods
And harvest fields with hoarded increase brown
And deep-toned majesty of golden floods
That raise their solemn dirges to the sky
To swell the purple pomp that floateth by.

Too oft the poet in elaborate verse
Flushed with quaint images and gorgeous tropes
Casteth a doubtful light which is not hope's
On the dark spot where Death hath sealed his curse
In monumental silence. Nature starts
Indignant from the sacrilege of words
That ring so hollow and forlornly girds
Her great woe round her
there's no trick of Art's
But shows most ghastly by a new-made tomb.
I see no balm in Gilead
he is lost
The beautiful soul that loved thee thy life's bloom
Is withered by the sudden blighting frost
O Grief! how mighty
Creeds! how vain ye are:
Earth presses closely--Heaven is cold and far.

Upveiled in yonder dim ethereal sea
Its airy towers the work of phantom spells
A viewless belfry tolls its wizard bells.
Pealed o'er this populous earth perpetually.
Some hear some hear them not
but aye they be
Laden with one strange note that sinks or swells
Now dread as doom now gentle as farewells
Time's dirge borne ever toward eternity.
Each hour in measured breath sobs out and dies
While the bell tolls its requiem--"Passing past"--
The sole sad burden of their long refrain.
Still with those hours each pang each pleasure flies
Brief sweet brief bitter--all our days are vain
Knolled into dread forgetfulness at last. 

I fear thee not O Death! nay oft I pine
To clasp thy passionless bosom to mine own
And on thy heart sob out my latest moan
Ere lapped and lost in thy strange sleep divine
But much I fear lest that chill breath of thine
Should freeze all tender memories into stone--
Lest ruthless and malign Oblivion
Quench the last spark that lingers on love's shrine:
O God! to moulder through dark dateless years
The while all loving ministries shall cease
And time assuage the fondest mourner's tears!
Here lies the sting!--this this it is to die!
And yet great Nature rounds all strife with peace
And Life or Death each rests in mystery! 

Life-yielding fragrance of our Mother Earth!
Benignant breath exhaled from summer showers!--
All Nature dimples into smiles of flowers
From unclosed woodland to trim garden girth:--
These perfumes softening the harsh soul of dearth
Are older than old Shinar's arrogant towers--
And touched with visions of rain-freshened hours
On Syrian hill-slopes ere the Patriarch's birth!
Nay! the charmed fancy plays a subtler part!--
Lo! banished Adam his large wondering eyes
Fixed on the trouble of the first dark cloud!
Lo! tremulous Eve--a pace behind how bowed--
Not dreaming 'midst her painful pants of heart
What balm shall fall from yonder ominous cloud!

In youth when blood was warm and fancy high
I mocked at death. How many a quaint conceit
I wove about his veiled head and feet
Vaunting aloud Why need we dread to die?
But now enthralled by deep solemnity
Death's pale phantasmal shade I darkly greet:
Ghostlike it haunts the hearth it haunts the street
Or drearier makes drear midnight's mystery.
Ah soul-perplexing vision! oft I deem
That antique myth is true which pictured death
A masked and hideous form all shrank to see
But at the last slow ebb of mortal breath
Death his mask melting like a nightmare dream
Smiled--heaven's high-priest of Immortality!

The sickness of desire that in dark days
Looks on the imagination of despair
Forgetteth man and stinteth God his praise
Nor but in sleep findeth a cure for care.
Incertainty that once gave scope to dream
Of laughing enterprise and glory untold
Is now a blackness that no stars redeem
A wall of terror in a night of cold. Fool! thou that hast impossibly desired
And now impatiently despairest see
How nought is changed: Joy's wisdom is attired
Splended for others' eyes if not for thee:
Not love or beauty or youth from earth is fled:
If they delite thee not 'tis thou art dead. 

Since now from woodland mist and flooded clay
I am fled beside the steep Devonian shore
Nor stand for welcome at your gothic door
'Neath the fair tower of Magdalen and May
Such tribute Warren as fond poets pay
For generous esteem I write not more
Enhearten'd than my need is reckoning o'er
My life-long wanderings on the heavenly way: 
But well-befriended we become good friends
Well-honour'd honourable
and all attain
Somewhat by fathering what fortune sends.
I bid your presidency a long reign
True friend
and may your praise to greater ends
Aid better men than I nor me in vain. T

Belov'd of all to whom that Muse is dear
Who hid her spirit of rapture from the Greek
Whereby our art excelleth the antique
Perfecting formal beauty to the ear
Thou that hast been in England many a year
The interpreter who left us nought to seek
Making Beethoven's inmost passion speak
Bringing the soul of great Sebastian near.
Their music liveth ever and 'tis just
That thou good Joachim so high thy skill
Rank (as thou shalt upon the heavenly hill)
Laurel'd with them for thy ennobling trust
Remember'd when thy loving hand is still
And every ear that heard thee stopt with dust.

How fares it friend since I by Fate annoy'd
Left the old home in need of livelier play
For body and mind? How fare this many a day
The stubborn thews and ageless heart of Floyd?
If not too well with country sport employ'd
Visit my flock the breezy hill that they
Choose for their fold
and see for thence you may
From rising walls all roofless yet and void The lovely city thronging tower and spire
The mind of the wide landscape dreaming deep
Grey-silvery in the vale
a shrine where keep
Memorian hopes their pale celestial fire:
Like man's immortal conscience of desire
The spirit that watcheth in me ev'n in my sleep. 

While yet we wait for spring and from the dry
And blackening east that so embitters March
Well-housed must watch grey fields and meadows parch
And driven dust and withering snowflake fly
Already in glimpses of the tarnish'd sky
The sun is warm and beckons to the larch
And where the covert hazels interarch
Their tassell'd twigs fair beds of primrose lie.
Beneath the crisp and wintry carpet hid
A million buds but stay their blossoming
And trustful birds have built their nests amid
The shuddering boughs and only wait to sing
Till one soft shower from the south shall bid
And hither tempt the pilgrim steps of spring. 

In autumn moonlight when the white air wan
Is fragrant in the wake of summer hence
'Tis sweet to sit entranced and muse thereon
In melancholy and godlike indolence:
When the proud spirit lull'd by mortal prime
To fond pretence of immortality
Vieweth all moments from the birth of time
All things whate'er have been or yet shall be.
And like the garden where the year is spent
The ruin of old life is full of yearning
Mingling poetic rapture of lament
With flowers and sunshine of spring's sure returning
Only in visions of the white air wan
By godlike fancy seized and dwelt upon.
I from whose heart young Love is long time gone
Beyond recall--and in his secret place
Dull Sorrow soothes with sad averted face
Her restless sister Pain with visage wan
Handmaidens of the shadow-footed One
Who comes more slowly than the season's pace
Creeping around the year--I wish you grace
As you stand glorious in life's morning sun.

Your blood-red lips are eager at the brim
Of that deep cup now amply poured for you.
Drink with closed eyes nor look upon the lees
They only quaff whose joys are memories.
Drink of the bubbles sparkling at the rim
The dregs are bitter and your hours are few.
Fair was the face of this illumined dawn
With vernal brightness vernal softness fair
The sun incessant wooed the blushing morn
And all the youthful hours laughed round the pair:
But ere the evening what a change was there!
Harsh thunders roll and fork lightnings fly
Hiemal tempests brood along the air
Or fall in torrents from an angry sky.
Ah! scarce less mutable is man's brief day
Soon are his early prospects clouded o'er
And those soft suns that shot their April ray
Across his primrose pathway shine no more:
Grief on the present drops her tearful showers
And apprehension over the future lours. 

Romantic guardians of this peaceful vale
That over yon raftered shed raise high your brow:
Say does some wizard up your cleft side scale
And like a blighted pollard seem to grow?
Wrapped in the mazy windings of the dale
Do elfin monarchs hold their court below
Or down the devious rill by moonlight sail
Their bark a shell a grassy blade their prow?
Whate'er your residents whate'er their task
To shield the sounding cliff or springs unlock
Whether they now in sloping sunbeams bask
Or doze till midnight in the rifted rock
Still let a stranger mark their hallowed reign
And hear in rising winds their mystic strain. 

If to be praised by those who merit praise
Gives honour as some sapient sages deemed
If by the bland in heart to be esteemed
Gives comfort and the drooping thought can raise
If where the dignity of elder days
And high nobility of souls have beamed
An inborn radiance sympathy hath gleamed
With kindred warmth and shot some roseate rays
And with benignant tenderness hath cheered
My lonesome hours whom widowed anguish led
Through sorrow's sablest gloom
how much endeared
Is Brydges! by each muse and grace bestead
For he my lettered friend my social pride
Hath honour comfort solace joy supplied.
Not pale as one in sleep or holier death
Nor illcontent the lady seems nor loth
To lie in shadow of shrill river growth
So steadfast are the river's arms beneath.
Pale petals follow her in very faith
Unmixed with pleasure or regret and both
Her maidly hands look up in noble sloth
To take the blossoms of her scattered wreath.
No weakest ripple lives to kiss her throat
Nor dies in meshes of untangled hair
No movement stirs the floor of river moss.
Until some furtive glimmer gleam across
Voluptuous mouth where even teeth are bare
And gild the broidery of her petticoat...

Geranium houseleek laid in oblong beds
On the trim grass. The daisies' leprous stain
Is fresh. Each night the daisies burst again
Though every day the gardener crops their heads.
A wistful child in foul unwholesome shreds
Recalls some legend of a daisy chain
That makes a pretty necklace. She would fain
Make one and wear it if she had some threads.
Sun leprous flowers foul child. The asphalt burns.
The garrulous sparrows perch on metal Burns.
Sing! Sing! they say and flutter with their wings.
He does not sing he only wonders why
He is sitting there. The sparrows sing. And I
Yield to the strait allure of simple things.

Conquered the flower-maidens and the wide embrace
Of their round proffered arms that tempt the virgin boy
Conquered the trickling of their babbling tongues
the coy
Back glances and the mobile breasts of subtle grace
Conquered the Woman Beautiful the fatal charm
Of her hot breast the music of her babbling tongue
Conquered the gate of Hell into the gate the young
Man passes with the heavy trophy at his arm
The holy Javelin that pierced the Heart of God.
He heals the dying king he sits upon the throne
King and high priest of that great gift the living Blood.
In robe of gold the youth adores the glorious Sign
Of the green goblet worships the mysterious Wine.
And oh! the chime of children's voices in the dome.
The morning is ten thousand miles away.
The winter night surrounds me vast and cold
Without a star. The voiceless fog is rolled
From ocean-levels desolate and grey
But over all the floods of moonlight lay
A glory on those billows that enfold
The muffled sea and forest. Gaunt and old
The dripping redwoods wait the distant day.
Unknown above what silver-dripping waves
Break slowly on the purple reefs of night!
What radiant foam ascends from shadowy bars
Or sinks unechoing to soundless caves!
No whisper is upon those tides of light
Setting in silence toward the risen stars.

O phantom sea pale spirit of unrest!
There is no thunder where your billows break.
Morning shall be your strand
your waters make
An island of the mountain-top whose crest
Is lonely on the ocean of your breast.
No sail is there save what our visions take
Of mist and moonlight on whose ghostly wake
Our dreams go forth unuttered to the West.
The splendour on your tides is high and far
Seen by the mind alone whose wings can sweep
On wilder glories and a vaster deep.
Chill are your gulfs O sea without a song!
Hiding the heavens from man man from the star
To which your parent sea endures as long.

There is a soul above the soul of each
A mightier soul which yet to each belongs:
There is a sound made of all human speech
And numerous as the concourse of all songs:
And in that soul lives each in each that soul
Though all the ages are its lifetime vast
Each soul that dies in its most sacred whole
Receiveth life that shall for ever last.
And thus for ever with a wider span
Humanity o'erarches time and death
Man can elect the universal man
And live in life that ends not with his breath:
And gather glory that increases still
Till Time his glass with Death's last dust shall fill.

Dismal November! me it soothes to view
At parting day the scanty foliage fall
From the wet fruit tree or the grey stone wall
Whose cold films glisten with unwholesome dew
To watch the yellow mists from the dank earth
Enfold the neighbouring copse
while on as they pass
The silent rain-drops bend the long rank grass
Which wraps some blossom's unmaturd birth.
And through my cot's lone lattice glimmering grey
Thy damp chill evenings have a charm for me
Dismal November! for strange vacancy
Summoneth then my very heart away!
Till from mist-hidden spire comes the slow knell
And says that in the still air Death doth dwell!

Ah! quiet day I oft recall the time
When I did chase my childish sluggishness
The "rear of darkness lingering still"--to dress
In due sort for thy coming: the first chime
Of blithesome bells that ushered in the morn
Carolled to me of rest and simplest mirth:
It was then all happiness on the wide earth
To gaze! I little dreamt that man was born
For aught but wholesome toil and holiest praise
Thanking that God who made him to rejoice!
But I am changd now! nor could I raise
My sunken spirit at thy well-known voice
But that thou seemest soothingly to say
"Look up poor mourner to a better day."

Is not all nature smiling? Why should I
Pine with the agonies of wretchedness?
This active life excites that vanity
And him the fervours of affection bless.
Ambition beckoning waves her banners high
Streaming with rays of glory and success
And on the wings of folly thousands fly
To grasp the toy of hourly happiness.
Dejection presses me with power like fate
In fellowship with woe and inward care
The beauteous forms of nature wrought so fair
Sink on my spirits with a weary weight
Nor active life less threatens with despair
There flourish insincerity and hate.

In such a day how calm and mild this scene
Made for poetic thought. The woods displayed
Of brown and yellow every varying shade
And here and there the fresh and lingering green
Told yet of summer and her days serene
Too soon departed! Fading fern arrayed
The russet hills
and as faint sun-gleams strayed
In warmer hues the upland slopes were seen.
Oh beauteous aspect of a beauteous world!
Mournful to think how little understood!
In man's distempered heart hath frenzy hurled
Envenomed shafts. The sword defiled with blood
Lays waste the earth
and over the ocean flood
The crimson flag of discord is unfurled.

Where is that crowd of friends that could dispense
Refreshing rapture to life's sunny morn?
Where are those loves affections that are born
Of freedom sentiment and confidence?
It is silent all! a blank to every sense!
The energy of life that used to scorn
The rule of pale experience is withdrawn!
That power erewhile so buoyant and intense.
Yet there is one who faithful still remains
Who loves my solitude as once she loved
My cheer in social life: who loves my joy
Nor flies my couch when gnawing sickness reigns:
She like the minister of heaven hath proved
That "time and chance" can true love never destroy.

Macready! thou hast pleased me much
till now
(And yet I would not thy fine powers arraign)
I did not think thou hadst that livelier vein
Nor that clear open spirit on thy brow.
Come I will crown thee with Apollo's bough
Mine is a humble branch yet not in vain
Given if the few I sing shall not disdain
To wear the little wreaths that I bestow:--
There is a buoyant air a passionate tone
That breathes about thee lighting up thine eye
With fire and freedom
it becomes thee well.
It is the bursting of a good seed sown
Beneath a cold and artificial sky
It is genius overmastering its spell. 

When from my dreary home I first moved on
After my friend was in her grave-clothes dressed
A dim despondence on my spirit pressed
As all my pleasant days were come and gone!
Strange whispers parted from the entombing clay
The thin air murmured each dumb object spake
Bidding my overwhelmd bosom ache
Oft did I look to heaven but could not pray.
"How shall I leave thee quiet scene?" said I
"How leave the passing breeze that loves to sweep
The holy sod where my due footsteps creep?"
"The passing breeze? It was she! Thy friend passed by!"
But the time came
the passing breeze I left
"Farewell" I sighed
and seemed of all bereft.

Once we had joys in common: common woes
Have lately been our portion friend once loved!
And still as much loved as mid sorrow's throes
It is possible to move or to be moved.
Faithless I'm not because no word that glows
No look that cheers accost a friend approved
Love's language lies in more profound repose
Than that of death since hope has been removed
From my soul's dreams.
But couldst thou pierce my heart
And see the tenderest thought it doth enshrine
It is should myself and sorrow ever part
Mine eyes shall then tell thee when sought by thine
While blessed tears gush like children's without art
"These had not flowed wert thou again not mine."

Sad soul whom God resuming what He gave
Medicines with bitter anguish of the tomb
Cease to oppress the portals of the grave
And strain thy aching sight across the gloom.
The surged Atlantic's winter-beaten wave
Shall sooner pierce the purpose of the wind
Than thy storm-tossed and heavy-swelling mind
Grasp the full import of His means to save.
Through the dark night lie still
God's faithful grace
Lies hid like morning underneath the sea.
Let thy slow hours roll like these weary stars
Down to the level ocean patiently
Till His loved hand shall touch the Eastern bars
And his full glory shine upon thy face. 

The rough green wealth of wheaten fields that sway
In the low wind of midsummer all day
The morning valley's warm perfumed breeze
Floating from southern sycamore shadowed rills
The singing forest on the dawn-topped hills
The living depth of azure spacing seas:
Still brooding shadows upon mossy walls
Aerial vapours crumbling down the heights
Silence of woods amid green mellow lights
And sighs of distant drizzling waterfalls:
The sweet faint breath of the short moonlit nights
From misty meadows where the quaint crake calls
Rare pageants in the western day withdrawn
And fleets of rich light-laden clouds at dawn.

The rainbow o'er the sea of afternoon
Whence comes the fresh sound of the distant wave
The mirrored lights that roof the lonely cave
Where roll the waters from the rising moon
The airs that stir the grasses on the grave
And whisper spirit-like to one beneath
That love in Summer grieves no more for death:
The first sweet secret touch of lips grown dear
In happy twilight woods when none are near
Sweet fancies just awaked at morn when still
The level red cloud lies beyond the hill:--
Such are the thoughts and objects that appear
To lap in sacred sadness or inspire
Thy strings to Beauty's moods oh Summer lyre.

Regions of soft clear air of cold green leaves
Heaths grasses solitary as a sea:
Vistas of gold and violet radiancy
Isles where the surge and the lone wave-bird grieves
White-citied plains hill-cinctured whence there flow
Eurotean rivulets pellucidly
'Mid laurels reeds blue lilies
--in the glow
A cape with sheep and ruins like ripe sheaves
Fallen columns smooth as aged ivory:
Some citadel remote or rocky pyre
The sunset turns to purple and to fire
Gardens of thyme and groves of olives brown
Along the slopes Olympian vapours crown
Like gods in commune formless divine and dire.

Remote from smoky cities aged and grey
I pass the long-drawn Summer sea-side day:
Now reading in the garden arbour where
In light and silence comes the freckled morn
When dews are on the leaf and cool the air
The faint wave wash is heard the beach along
Whence a warm wind waves languidly the corn
And poised in haze the lark shakes out her song
Now hearing in deep grass the sweeping scythe
And in the sultry stillness voices blythe
'Till day is done. Blue coolness comes once more:
The reapers bind in twilight the last sheaf
And the fresh spring-tide foams the sloaky reef
As floats the white moon up the lonely land. 

Into the wood at close of rainy day
I walk dim cloud above green leaves around
Upon the humid air only the sound
Of drop on drop stirring the stillness grey:
Almost I hear the rose leaves fall away
Too heavily weighed with damp to cling o'er-blown
To their wet branches straggling o'er the copse
Until the faint waved twilight airs entone
Tide-like along the blossom'd beech tree-tops
And amid showers and flowers scattering alone
Pass from the fresh dusk solitude among
Meadows in clouded moonlight glimmeringly
Seen like the low blue hills
and hear the song
Of the last bird and wash of the cool sea. 

Awakened I behold through dewy leaves
Wavering in the air the pale dawn's level glow
And hear the sparrow's twitter on the eaves
The engine's quick steam throb the first cock's crow:
And soon a prayer-bell toll remote and slow:
And then a-while with light-reclosed eyes
I float upon my pillow as a cloud
Unto a land whose snowy ruins rise
Along a plain girt by blue mountains proud
And under solitary Egerean skies
Bright verdure and bright marbles in a dell
Deserted where within a recluse well
Through leafy lights I see a nymph's face beam
Which fades not when in daylight dies my dream.

Upon an upland orchard's sunny side
I pass the quiet blue September day:
There winds through tented fields they sometimes hide
Past woods and meadows green the dusty way
Down to the ship-speckled level of the bay
And amber sands in crescent spreading wide.
Last night the winds were in the trees and here
In golden moss a few red apples lie
And from the copse a thrush flutes strong and clear
And faintly humming flits the emerald fly:
All things autumnalised are rich and calm
Steam-plumed argosies surge up the main
And o'er the singing woodlands breathing balm
One superb white cloud passes dropping rain. 

The apples ripen under yellowing leaves
And in the farm yards by the little bay
The shadows come and go amid the sheaves
And on the long dry inland winding way:
Where in the thinning boughs each air bereaves
Faint sunlights golden and the spider weaves.
Grey are the low-laid sleepy hills and grey
The autumn solitude of the sea day
Where from the deep 'mid-channel less and less
You hear along the pale east afternoon
A sound uncertain as the silence swoon--
The tide's sad voice ebbing toward loneliness:
And past the sands and seas' blue level line
Ceaseless the faint far murmur of the brine.

An isle of trees full foliaged in a meadow
Along whose quiet grassy shores below
The white sheep bathe in level lengths of shadow
And sweet airs amiable as summer blow
Warmly and faint among the happy leaves
Loving each other in a green repose
Folded
or waking in the slumbrous glow
Where the wind passing indolently weaves
A net of lazy listless whisperings
Most like the liquid lullaby of springs
Pulsing demure and quaintly in some cool
Dell of the woods
unseen save of some ray
Piercing the boughs having somewhat to say
To fairies couched on bubbles round the pool.

When I had turned Catullus into rhyme
And stars shone from the sea's blue southern zone
Breathing in slumber tranquil as my own
Above those pages of the antique time
Laid in a casement near me where the vines
Trembled their shade: lo! on a sudden rose
Beautiful Venus naked amid glows
Of roseate cloud and all the Lesbian lines
With her white finger touching as she smiled
Stooped her and kissed them for a space beguiled
'Till with a sigh she vanished. Then above
The sheaf of song in darkness I beheld
Impassioned foreheads as of poet gods
Bend their gold curls and o'er them muse enspelled
And wild and epic music from their abodes
Heard blend in the high night with those of love.

Ye two fair trees that I so long have known
And loved as living over dust so dear
Who silently have seen tear after tear
Rise from my heart when to the engraved stone
I came to pray and with true love alone
Live back old times amid a world so drear
With cares and changes of a many a year
And loss of most things I could love or own:
Now 'mid the calm of this blue April noon
While the fresh wind breathes warm from the clear west
Put fancy once more with thy leaves in tune
Green genial Muse of the grey grave:--for soon
By the dear dust it roofs I too shall rest.

A roadside inn this summer Saturday:--
The doors are open to the wide warm air
The parlour whose old window views the bay
Garnished with cracked delph full of flowers fair
From the fields round and whence you see the glare
Fall heavy on the hot slate roofs and o'er
The wall's tree shadows drooping in the sun.
Now rumbles slowly down the dusty street
The lazy drover's clattering cart
and crows
Fainter through afternoon the cock
with hoes
Tan-faced harvest folk trudge in the heat:
The neighbours at their shady doors swept clean
Gossip and with cool eve fresh scents of wheat
Grasses and leaves come from the meadows green.

I walk of grey noons by the old canal
Where rain-drops patter on the autumn leaves
Now watching from some ivied orchard wall
In slopes of stubble figures pile the sheaves
Or under banks in shadow of their grass
Blue water-flies by starts jettingly pass
'Mid large leaves level on the glassy cool
Or noiseless dizzy midges winking round
The yellow sallows of the meadow pool
While into cloudy silence ebbs each sound
And sifts the moulting sunlight warm and mellow
O'er sandy beach remote or slumberous flood
Or rooky red brick mansion by the wood
Mossed gate or farmyard hay-stacks tanned and yellow.

Now winter's dolorous days are o'er and through
March morning casements comes the sharp spring air
And noises from the distant city where
The steeples stand up keenly in the blue:
No more the clouds by crispy frost defined
Pile the pale North but float dispersed shapes
Though still around the cool grey twilight capes
The sullen sea is dark with drifts of wind.
Like a forgotten fleck of snow still left
The cascade gleams in the far mountain cleft
Brown rushes by the river's brimming bank
Rustle and matted sedges sway and sigh
Where grasses in sleek shallows waver dank
Or drift in windy ripples greyly by. 

Blow summer wind from yonder ocean blow
Along the wild sea banks and grasses drear
And loamy shores where mosses brown and sere
And pale pinks in the sandy ridges grow
Float round yon promontory in the brine
Whose stretching arm in deepest azure lies
Where quiet browse the heavy-uddered kine
By rock and shining shallow grey and clear
And fill this listless hour the dreamy ear
With thy scarce toned and wordless harmonies:
For here with Nature will I rest and please
My heart with sweetest fancies all the noon
Until the limpid crescent of the moon
Lights the blue east above the evening trees.

Mysterious Night! when our first parent knew
Thee from report divine and heard thy name
Did he not tremble for this lovely frame
This glorious canopy of light and blue?
Yet 'neath a curtain of translucent dew
Bathed in the rays of the great setting flame
Hesperus with the host of heaven came
And lo! Creation widened in man's view.
Who could have thought such darkness lay concealed
Within thy beams O Sun! or who could find
Whilst fly and leaf and insect stood revealed
That to such countless orbs thou mad'st us blind!

Why do we then shun Death with anxious strife?
If Light can thus deceive wherefore not Life?
Soon as the azure-colored gates of th' east
Were set wide open by the watchful morn
I walked abroad as having took no rest
(For nights are tedious to a man forlorn)
And viewing well each pearl-bedewd flower
Then waxing dry by splendor of the sun
All scarlet-hued I saw him 'gin to lour
And blush as though some heinous act were done.
At this amazed I hied me home amain
Thinking that I his anger causd had.
And at his set abroad I walked again
When lo the moon looked wondrous pale and sad:
Anger the one and envy moved the other
To see my love more fair than Love's fair mother.

What sugared terms what all-persuading art
What sweet mellifluous words what wounding looks
Love used for his admittance to my heart!
Such eloquence was never read in books.
He promised pleasure rest and endless joy
Fruition of the fairest she alive.
His pleasure pain
rest trouble
joy annoy
Have I since found which me of bliss deprive.
The Trojan horse thus have I now let in
Wherein enclosed these armd men were placed
Bright eyes fair cheeks sweet lips and milk-white skin
These foes my life have overthrown and razed.
Fair outward shows prove inwardly the worst
Love looketh fair but lovers are accurst.

Weary with serving where I nought could get
I thought to cross great Neptune's greatest seas
To live in exile
but my drift was let
By cruel fortune spiteful of such ease.
The ship I had to pass in was my mind
Greedy desire was topsail of the same
My tears were surges sighs did serve for wind
Of all my ship despair was chiefest frame
Sorrow was master
care the cable rope
Grief was the mainmast
love the captain of it
He that did rule the helm was foolish hope
But beauty was the rock that my ship split
Which since bath made such shipwreck of my joy
That still I swim in th' ocean of annoy. 

End this enchantment love of my desires
Let me no longer languish for thy love.
Joy not to see me thus consume in fires
But let my cruel pains thy hard heart move.
And now at last with pitiful regard
Eye me thy lover lorn for lack of thee
Which dying lives in hope of sweet reward
Which hate hath hitherto withheld from me.
Constant have I been still in fancy fast
Ordained by heavens to dote upon thy fair
Nor will I e'er so long as life shall last
Say any's fairer breathing vital air.
But when the ocean sands shall lie unwet
Then shall my soul to love thee dear forget.

Morning in Zululand. I was awake
Ere yet the sun the voiceless hill-tops kissed.
Far in the distance like a fog-dimmed lake
The bosom of a mountain with the mist
Hanging above it
on its highest hold
A ruin grand in famished wilderness
Like some romantic castle tower of old
Blue solitary silent tenantless.
Now decks the sun the Eastern sky with gold
Now with a golden diadem has crowned
The stately turret
awe-rapt I behold
His gilded rays the silver mist confound
With longings undefined yet past control
In silent meditation of the soul.

Out of the mist-land of the Past come back
And hold my hand in silence smile on me
Just once to cheer me on the lonely track
That leads from sorrow to uncertainty.
Where art thou now? Ah love how can I say
Perchance in some far world I may not see.
As many ocean waves have rolled away
As all the years that hide thee far from me.
Yet I have known thee once full long ago
The evening winds bring echoes of our love
The twilight-drooping flowers do tell me so
And the imagined murmuring above.
And to my spirit thou art ever real
Who wert and art and shalt be mine ideal. 

As these far-reaching sands my life is drear
And mournful as the murmur of the deep
And changeless ocean. But they come in sleep
My loving kinsmen from afar and bear
To kindly sleep's dream-laden atmosphere
A fond illusion for my heart to keep
Like a rich boat gale-blown when tides are neap
Afraid to lose it holding it so dear.
'Tis then she comes and with love-radiant eyes
And with a little cry she leans on me
And for a moment all my soul swings free--
Swings free to journey back life's listless stream.
But all too soon alas the slumber dies
Of one who longs for an eternal dream.

Farewell my lady and bright star good-bye!
My soul would find its immortality
My love uncrownd on death's wings would fly
To seek its laurel in Eternity.
Hope softly falls from gardens of the sky
Whose soil is darkness and whose blossoms light
Falls softly in the murmured melody
Borne earthward by the dewy winds of night.
O winds that in the kingdom of yon mist
Sing to the flowers and all their secrets bear
Inform my heart now while the world is kissed
To listless silence dwells contentment there?
Do loving dreams inhabit That Domain
Where I would end this flight to dream again?
Art thou less beautiful or I more dull?
O Nature once my passion and delight
How shall I win thee? Is thy promise null?
Or have I forfeited my ancient right?
By me thy skiey splendours are unwatched
By me thy changeful year unheeded flies
Glories of sunrise or of eve unmatched--
Changes but new delights to lovers' eyes.
Time was I thought that thou to me hadst given
The dearest boon imparted from above
The greener meadow and the bluer heaven
With the deep heart of wonder and of love.
But now the sharer of a common lot
I only wonder that I wonder not.
Brook happy brook that glidest through my dell
That trippest with soft feet across the mead
That laughing on a mazy course dost lead
O'er pebble beds and reeds and rushy swell
Go by that cottage where my love doth dwell.
Ripple thy sweetest ripple sing the best
Of melodies thou hast
lull her to rest
With such sweet tales as thou dost love to tell.
Say "One is sitting in your wood to-night
O maiden rare to catch a glimpse of you
A shadow fleet or but a window-light
Shall make him glad and thrill his spirit through."
Brook happy brook I pray go lingering
And underneath the rosy lattice sing.

I stole not your garters dear Margaret believe me
To place them around my neck or my knee:
They are valueless yet
or they do much deceive me
Having never been worn and made sacred by thee.
Of Stars and of Garters so much has been said
That wit's at a stand on a subject so tried:
On the latter what has not been sung to the maid
Ere lovers have hung themselves in them and died!
May such tragedy-doings never wait on your love
But affection all pure and sublime be your lot
So a heaven on earth your existence shall prove
Whether fate shall assign you a palace or cot.
Then love for love only ecstatic you'll barter
And exchange for the ring all the rights of the garter.

Far from the busy hum of men away
Secluded here naught of the world I see
And almost doubt if such a place there be
As London's trading town or Paris gay
Surcharged with crowds the livelong night and day.
That war is going on by land and sea
That slaughter tumult horror and dismay
Pervade the world now seemeth strange to me.
And as I pass the sweetly lonely hours
Estrangd here from bustle strife and care
Surrounded but by woods and fields and flowers
While nature's music floats along the air
And autumn all her various bounties pours
I wish an erring world these scenes with me to share.
Within the rose I found a trembling tear
Close curtained in a gloom of crimson night
By tender petals from the outer light
I plucked the flower and held it to my ear
And thought within its fervid breast to hear
A smothered heart-beat throbbing soft and low.
I heard its busy life-blood gently flow
Now far away and now so strangely near.
Ah thought I if these silent lips of flame
Could be unsealed and fling into the air
Their woe their passion and in speech proclaim
Their warm intoxication of despair
Then would I give the rose into thy hand
Thou couldst its voice beloved not withstand. 

How can I lightly speak thy wondrous name
Which breathes the airy fragrance of thyself
As might far straying from his flower the elf
Hold yet a breath within his fragile frame
Of the flower's soul betraying whence he came?
I too beloved though we stray apart
Since in the vestal temple of thy heart
I dwell secure glow with a sacred flame.
A breath of thy sweet self unto me clings--
A wondrous voice as of large unborn deeds
With deep resoundings through my being rings
And unto wider realms of vision leads.
And dead to me are sorrow doubt and pain
The slumbering god within me wakes again.

I am the child of earth and air and sea
My lullaby by hoarse Silurian storms
Was chanted
and through endless changing forms
Of plant and bird and beast unceasingly
The toiling ages wrought to fashion me.
Lo these large ancestors have left a breath
Of their strong souls in mine defying death
And doom. I grow and blossom as the tree
And ever feel deep-delving earthy roots
Binding me daily to the common clay
But with its airy impulse upward shoots
My life into the realms of light and day.
And though O Sea stern mother of my soul
Thy tempests sing in me thy billows roll!

I saw the lily pale and perfect grow
Amid its silent sisters in the mead.
Methought within its chilly depth to read
A maidenly severity as though
A cool young life lay slumbering in the snow
Of its frail substance. In that chalice white
Whose fairy texture shone against the light
An unwakened pulse beat faint and slow.
And I remembered love thy coy disdain
When thou my love for thee hadst first divined
Thy proud shy tendernesstoo proud to feign
That willful blindness which is yet not blind.
Then toward the sun thy lily-life I turned
With sudden splendor flushed its chalice burned.

I wonder oft why God who is so good
Has barred so close so close the gates of death.
I stand and listen with suspended breath
While night and silence round about me brood
If then perchance some spirit-whisper would
Grow audible and pierce my torpid sense.
And oft I feel a presence veiled intense
That pulses softly through the solitude
But as my soul leaps quivering to my ear
To grasp the potent message all takes flight
And from the fields and woods I only hear
The murmurous chorus of the summer night.
I am as on that's deadyet in his gloom
Feels faintly song of birds above his tomb.

Bright matchless star the honour of the sky
From whose clear shine heaven's vault hath all his light
I send these poems to your graceful eye
Do you but take them and they have their right.
I build besides a temple to your name
Wherein my thoughts shall daily sing your praise
And will erect an altar for the same
Which shall your virtues and your honour raise.
But heaven the temple of your honour is
Whose brasen tops your worthy self made proud
The ground an altar base for such a bliss
With pity torn because I sighed so loud.
And since my skill no worship can impart
Make you an incense of my loving heart.

Sad all alone not long I musing sat
But that my thoughts compelled me to aspire
A laurel garland in my hand I gat
So the Muses I approached the nigher.
My suit was this a poet to become
To drink with them and from the heavens be fed.
Phoebus denied and sware there was no room
Such to be poets as fond fancy led.
With that I mourned and sat me down to weep
Venus she smiled and smiling to me said
Come drink with me and sit thee still and sleep.
This voice I heard
and Venus I obeyed.
That poison sweet hath done me all this wrong
For now of love must needs be all my song.

Weary was love and sought to take his rest
He made his choice upon a virgin's lap
And slyly crept from thence unto her breast
Where still he meant to sport him in his hap
The virgin frowned like Phbus in a cloud
Go pack sir boy here is no room for such
My breast no wanton foolish boy must shroud."
This said my love did give the wag a touch
Then as the foot that treads the stinging snake
Hastes to be gone for fear what may ensue
So love my love was forced for to forsake
And for more speed without his arrows flew.
"Pardon" he said "For why? You seemed to me
My mother Venus in her pride to be."

The heavens beheld the beauty of my queen
And all amazed to wonder thus began:
"Why dotes not Jove as erst we all have seen
And shapes himself like to a seemly man?
Mean are the matches which he sought before
Like bloomless buds too base to make compare
And she alone hath treasured beauty's store
In whom all gifts and princely graces are.
Cupid replied: "I posted with the sun
To view the maids that livd in those days
And none there was that might not well be won
But she most hard most cold made of delays.
Heavens were deceived and wrong they do esteem
She hath no heat although she living seem.

Love and my love did range the forest wild
Mounted alike upon swift coursers both.
Love her encountered though he was a child.
"Let's strive" saith he whereat my love was wroth
And scorned the boy and checked him with a smile.
"I mounted am and armd with my spear
Thou art too weak thyself do not beguile
I could thee conquer if I naked were."
With this ]ove wept and then my love replied:
"Kiss me sweet boy so weep my boy no more."
Thus did my love and then her force she tried
Love was made ice that fire was before.
A kiss of hers as I poor soul do prove
Can make the hottest freeze and coldest love.

Love with her hair my love by force hath tied
To serve ber lips her eyes her voice her hand
I smiled for joy when I the boy espied
To lie unchained and live at her command.
She if she look or kiss or sing or smile
Cupid withal doth smile doth sing doth kiss
Lips hands voice eyes all hearts that may beguile
Because she scorns all hearts but only this.
Venus for this in pride began to frown
That Cupid born a god enthralled should be.
She in disdain her pretty son threw down
And in his place with love she chaind me.
So now sweet love though I myself be thrall
Not her a goddess but thyself I call.

My love amazed did blush herself to see
Pictured by art all naked as she was.
"How could the painter know so much by me
Or art effect what he hath brought to pass?
It is not like he naked me hath seen
Or stood so nigh for to observe so much."
No sweet
his eyes so near have never been
Nor could his hands by art have cunning such
I showed my heart wherein you printed were
You naked you as here you painted are
In that my love your picture I must wear
And show't to all unless you have more care.
Then take my heart and place it with your own
So shall you naked never more be known.

Death in a rage assaulted once my heart
With love of her my love that doth deny.
I scorned his force and wished him to depart
I heartless was and therefore could not die.
I live in her in her I placed my life
She guides my soul and her I honour must.
Nor is this life but yet a living strife
A thing unmeet and yet a thing most just.
Cupid enraged did fly to make me love
My heart lay guarded with those burning eyes
The sparks whereof denied him to remove
So conquered now he like a captive lies
Thus two at once by love were both undone
My heart not loved and armless Venus' son.

Hard are the rocks the marble and the steel
The ancient oak with wind and weather tossed
But you my love far harder do I feel
Than flint or these or is the winter's frost.
My tears too weak your heart they cannot move
My sighs that rock like wind it cannot rent
Too tiger-like you swear you cannot love
But tears and sighs you fruitless back have sent.
The frost too hard not melted with my flame
I cinders am and yet you feel no heat.
Surpass not these sweet love for very shame
But let my tears my vows my sighs entreat
Then shall I say as I by trial find
These all are hard but you my love are kind.

Love was laid down all weary fast asleep
Whereas my love his armor took away
The boy awaked and straight began to weep
But stood amazed and knew not what to say.
"Weep not my boy" said Venus to her son
"Thy weapons none can wield but thou alone
Licia the fair this harm to thee hath done
I saw her here and presently was gone
She will restore them for she hath no need
To take thy weapons where thy valour lies
For men to wound the Fates have her decreed
With favour hands with beauty and with eyes."
No Venus no: she scorns them credit me
But robbed thy son that none might care for thee.

A painter drew the image of the boy
Swift love with wings all naked and yet blind
With bow and arrows bent for to destroy
I blamed his skill and fault I thus did find
"A needless task I see thy cunning take
Misled by love thy fancy thee betrayed
Love is no boy nor blind as men him make
Nor weapons wears whereof to be affrayed
But if thou love wilt paint with greatest skill
A love a maid a goddess and a queen
Wonder and view at Licia's picture still
For other love the world hath never seen
For she alone all hope all comfort gives
Men's hearts souls all led by her favour lives."

In Ida vale three queens the shepherd saw
Queens of esteem divine they were all three
A sight of worth. But I a wonder shaw
Their virtues all in one alone to be.
Licia the fair surpassing Venus' pride
(The matchless queen commander of the gods
When drawn with doves she in her pomp doth ride)
Hath far more beauty and more grace by odds
Juno Jove's wife unmeet to make compare
I grant a goddess but not half so mild
Minerva wise a virtue but not rare
Yet these are mean if that my love but smiled.
She them surpasseth when their prides are full
As far as they surpass the meanest trull.

I wish sometimes although a worthless thing
Spurred by ambition glad to aspire
Myself a monarch or some mighty king
And then my thoughts do wish for to be higher.
But when I view what winds the cedars toss.
What storms men feels that covet for renown
I blame myself that I have wished my loss
And scorn a kingdom though it give a crown.
Ah Licia though the wonder of my thought
My heart's content procurer of my bliss
For whom a crown I do esteem as naught
As Asia's wealth too mean to buy a kiss!
Kiss me sweet love this favor do for me
Then crowns and kingdoms shall I scorn for thee.

Enamored Jove commanding did entreat
Cupid to wound my love which he denied
And swore he could not for she wanted heat
And would not love as he full oft had tried.
Jove in a rage impatient this to hear
Replied with threats
"I'll make you to obey!"
Whereat the boy did fly away for fear
To Licia's eyes where safe intrenched he lay.
Then Jove he scorned and dared him to his face
For now more safe than in the heavens he dwelled
Nor could Jove's wrath do wrong to such a place
Where grace and honour have their kingdom held.
Thus in the pride and beauty of her eyes
The seely boy the greatest god defies.

My love lay sleeping where birds music made
Shutting her eyes disdainful of the light
The heat was great but greater was the shade
Which her defended from his burning sight.
This Cupid saw and came a kiss to take
Sucking sweet nectar from her sugared breath
She felt the touch and blushed and did awake
Seeing t'was love which she did think was death
She cut his wings and causd him to stay
Making a vow he should not thence depart
Unless to her the wanton boy could pay
The truest kindest and most loving heart.
His feathers still she usd for a fan
Till by exchange my heart his feathers won.

I stood amazed and saw my Licia shine
Fairer than Phbus in his brightest pride
Set forth in colors by a hand divine
Where naught was wanting but a soul to guide.
It was a picture that I could descry
Yet made with art so as it seemed to live
Surpassing fair and yet it had no eye
Whereof my senses could no reason give.
With that the painter bid me not to muse
"Her eyes are shut but I deserve no blame
For if she saw in faith it could not choose
But that the work had wholly been a flame
"Then burn me sweet with brightness of your eyes
That phnix-like from thence I may arise.

Grant fairest kind a kiss unto thy friend!
A blush replied and yet a kiss I had.
It is not heaven that can such nectar send
Whereat my senses all amazed were glad.
This done she fled as one that was affrayed
And I desired to kiss by kissing more
My love she frowned and I my kissing stayed
Yet wished to kiss her as I did before.
Then as the vine the propping elm doth clasp
Loath to depart till both together die
So fold me sweet until my latest gasp
That in thy arms to death I kissed may lie.
Thus whilst I live for kisses I must call
Still kiss me sweet or kiss me not at all.

As are the sands fair Licia on the shore
Or colored flowers garlands of the spring
Or as the frosts not seen not felt before
Or as the fruits that autumn forth doth bring
As twinkling stars the tinsel of the night
Or as the fish that gallop in the seas
As airs each part that still escapes our sight
So are my sighs controllers of my ease.
Yet these are such as needs must have an end
For things finite none else hath nature done
Only the sighs which from my heart I send
Will never cease but where they first begun.
Accept them sweet as incense due to thee
For you immortal made them so to be.

I swear fair Licia still for to be thine
By heart by eyes by what I held most dear
Thou checked mine oath and said: these were not mine
And that I had no right by them to swear.
Then by my sighs my passions and my tears
My vows my prayers my sorrow and my love
My grief my joy my hope and hopeless fears
My heart is thine and never shall remove.
These are not thine though sent unto thy view
All else I grant by right they are thine own
Let these suffice that what I swear is true
And more than this if that it could be known.
So shall all these though troubles ease my grief
If that they serve to work in thee belief.

That time fair Licia when I stole a kiss
From off those lips where Cupid lovely laid
I quaked for cold and found the cause was this:
My life which loved for love behind me staid.
I sent my heart my life for to recall
But that was held not able to return
And both detained as captives were in thrall
And judged by her that both by sighs should burn.
Fair burn them both for that they were so bold
But let the altar be within thy heart
And I shall live because my life you hold
You that give life to every living part
A flame I took whenas I stole the kiss
Take you my life yet can I live with this.

First did I fear when first my love began
Possessed in fits by watchful jealousy
I sought to keep what I by favor won
And brooked no partner in my love to be.
But tyrant sickness fed upon my love
And spread his ensigns dyed with color white
Then was suspicion glad for to remove
And loving much did fear to lose her quite.
Erect fair sweet the colors thou didst wear
Dislodge thy griefs the short'ners of content
For now of life not love is all my fear
Lest life and love be both together spent.
Live but fair love and banish thy disease
And love kind heart both when and whom thou please.

Licia my love was sitting in a grove
Tuning her smiles unto the chirping songs
But straight she spied where two together strove
Each one complaining of the other's wrongs.
Cupid did cry lamenting of the harm
Jove's messenger thou wrong'st me too too far
Use thou thy rod rely upon the charm
Think not by speech my force thou canst debar.
A rod Sir boy were fitter for a child
My weapons oft and tongue and mind you took
And in my wrong at my distress thou smiled
And scorned to grace me with a loving look.
Speak you sweet love for you did all the wrong
That broke his arrows and did bind his tongue.

I might have died before my life begun
Whenas my father for his country's good
The Persian's favor and the Sophy won
And yet with danger of his dearest blood.
Thy father sweet whom danger did beset
Escapd all and for no other end
But only this that you he might beget
Whom heavens decreed into the world to send.
Then father thank thy daughter for thy life
And Neptune praise that yielded so to thee
To calm the tempest when the storms were rife
And that thy daughter should a Venus be.
I call thee Venus sweet but be not wroth
Thou art more chaste yet seas did favor both.

My love was masked and armd with a fan
To see the sun so careless of his light
Which stood and gazed and gazing waxd wan
To see a star himself that was more bright.
Some did surmize she hid her from the sun
Of whom in pride she scorned for to be kissed
Or feared the harm by him to others done.
But these the reason of this wonder missed
Nor durst the sun if that her face were bare
In greatest pride presume to take a kiss.
But she more kind did show she had more care
Than with her eyes eclipse him of his bliss.
Unmask you sweet and spare not
dim the sun
Your light's enough although that his were done.

Whenas my love lay sickly in her bed
Pale death did post in hope to have a prey
But she so spotless made him that he fled
"Unmeet to die" she cried and could not stay.
Back he retired and thus the heavens he told
"All things that are are subject unto me
Both towns and men and what the world doth hold
But her fair Licia still immortal be."
The heavens did grant
a goddess she was made
Immortal fair unfit to suffer change.
So now she lives and never more shall fade
In earth a goddess what can be more strange?
Then will I hope a goddess and so near
She cannot choose my sighs and prayers but hear.

Seven are the lights that wander in the skies
And at these seven I wonder in my love.
So see the moon how pale she doth arise
Standing amazed as though she durst not move
So is my sweet much paler than the snow
Constant her looks these looks that cannot change.
Mercury the next a god sweet-tongued we know
But her sweet voice doth wonders speak more strange.
The rising Sun doth boast him of his pride
And yet my love is far more fair than he.
The warlike Mars can wieldless weapons guide
But yet that god is far more weak than she.
The lovely Venus seemeth to be fair
But at her best my love is far more bright.
Saturn for age with groans doth dim the air
Whereas my love with smiles doth give it light.
Gaze at her brows where heaven ingrafted is
Then sigh and swear there is no heaven but this.

I live sweet love whereas the gentle wind
Murmurs with sport in midst of thickest boughs
Where loving woodbine doth the harbor bind
And chirping birds do echo forth my vows
Where strongest elm can scarce support the vine
And sweetest flowers enameled have the ground
Where Muses dwell
and yet hereat repine
That on the earth so rare a place was found.
But winds delight I wish to be content
I praise the woodbine but I take no joy
I moan the birds that music thus have spent
As for the rest they breed but mine annoy.
Live then fair Licia in this place alone
Then shall I joy though all of these were gone. 

The crystal stream wherein my love did swim
Melted in tears as partners of my woe
Her shine was such as did the fountain dim
The pearl-like fountain whiter than the snow
Then like perfume resolvd with a heat
The fountain smoked as if it thought to burn
A wonder strange to see the cold so great
And yet the fountain into smoke to turn.
I searched the cause and found it to be this:
She touched the water and it burned with love.
Now by her means it purebased hath tbat bliss
Which all diseases quickly can remove.
Then if by you these streams thus blesse'd be
Sweet grant me love and be not worse to me.

In time the strong and stately turrets fall
In time the rose and silver lilies die
In time the monarchs captive are and thrall
In time the sea and rivers are made dry
The hardest flint in time doth melt asunder
Still living fame in time doth fade away
The mountains proud we see in time come under
And earth for age we see in time decay
The sun in time forgets for to retire
From out the east where he was wont to rise
The basest thoughts we see in time aspire
And greedy minds in time do wealth despise.
Thus all sweet fair in time must have an end
Except thy beauty virtues and thy friend.

Why died I not whenas I last did sleep?
O sleep too short that shadowed forth my dear!
Heavens hear my prayers nor thus me waking keep!
For this were heaven if thus I sleeping were.
For in that dark there shone a princely light
Two milk-white hills both full of nectar sweet
Her ebon thighs the wonder of my sight
Where all my senses with their objects meet--
I pass these sports in secret that are best
Wherein my thoughts did seem alive to be
We both did strive and weary both did rest
I kissed her still and still she kissed me.
Heavens let me sleep and shows my senses feed
Or let me wake and happy be indeed!

Whenas my Licia saild in the seas
Viewing with pride god Neptune's stately crown
A calm she made and brought the merchant ease
The storm she stayed and checked him with a frown.
Love at the stern sate smiling and did sing
To see how seas had learned for to obey
And balls of fire into the waves did fling
And still the boy full wanton thus did say
"Both poles we burnt whereon the world doth turn
The round of heaven from earth unto the skies
And now the seas we both intend to burn
I with my bow and Licia with her eyes."
Then since thy force heavens earth nor seas can move
I conquered yield and do confess I love.

Whenas her lute is tund to her voice
The air grows proud for honour of that sound
And rocks do leap to show how they rejoice
That in the earth such music should be found.
Whenas her hair more worth more pale than gold
Like silver thread lies waiting in the air
Diana-lkike she looks but yet more bold
Cruel in chase more chaste and yet more fair.
Whenas she smiles the clouds for envy breaks
She Jove in pride encounters with a check
The sun doth shine for joy whenas she speaks
Thus heaven and earth do homage at her beck.
Yet all these graces blots not graces are
If you my love of love do take no care.

Years months days hours in sighs I sadly spend
I black the night wherein I sleepless toss
I love my griefs yet wish them at an end
Thus time's expense increaseth but my loss.
I musing stand and wonder at my love
That in so fair should be a heart of steel
And then I think my fancy to remove
But then more painful I my passions feel
Thus must I love sweet fair until I die
And your unkindness doth my love increase.
I conquered am I can it not deny
My life must end yet shall my love not cease.
Then heavens make Licia fair most kind to me
Or with my life my loss may finished be!

I wrote my sighs and sent them to my love
I praised that fair that none enough could praise
But plaints nor praises could fair Licia move
Above my reach she did her virtues raise
And thus replied: "False Scrawl untrue thou art
To feign those sighs that nowhere can be found
For half those praises came not from his heart
Whose faith and love as yet was never found.
Thy master's life false Scrawl shall be thy doom
Because he burns I judge thee to the flame
Both your attempts deserve no better room."
Thus at her word we ashes both became.
Believe me fair and let my paper live
Or be not fair and so me freedom give.

Pale are my looks forsaken of my life
Cinders my bones consume'd with thy flame
Floods are my tears to end this burning strife
And yet I sigh for to increase the same
I mourn alone because alone I burn
Who doubts of this then let him learn to love
Her looks cold ice into a flame can turn
As I distressd in myself do prove.
Respect fair Licia what my torments are
Count but the tithe both of my sighs and tears
See how my love doth still increase my care
And care's increase my life to nothing wears.
Send but a sigh my flame for to increase
Or lend a tear and cause it so to cease.

Whenas I wish fair Licia for a kiss
From those sweet lips where rose and lilies strive
Straight do mine eyes repine at such a bliss
And seek my lips thereof for to deprive
Whenas I seek to glut mine eyes by sight
My lips repine and call mine eyes away
Thus both contend to have each other's right
And both conspire to work my full decay.
O force admired of beauty in her pride
In whose each part such strange effects there be
That all my forces in themselves divide.
And make my senses plainly disagree.
If all were mine this envy would be gone
Then grant me all fair sweet or grant me none!

Hear how my sighs are echoed of the wind
See how my tears are pitied by the rain
Feel what a flame possessd hath my mind
Taste but the grief which I possess in vain.
Then if my sighs the blustering winds surpass
And wat'ry tears the drops of rain exceed
And if no flame like mine nor is nor was
Nor grief like that whereon my soul doth feed
Relent fair Licia when my sighs do blow
Yield at my tears that flintlike drops consume
Accept the flame that doth my incense show
Allow the grief that is my heart's perfume.
Thus sighs and tears flame grief shall plead for me
So shall I pray and you a goddess be.

I speak fair Licia what my torments be
But then my speech too partial do I find
For hardly words can with those thoughts agree
Those thoughts that swarm in such a troubled mind.
Then do I vow my tongue shall never speak
Nor tell my grief that in my heart doth lie
But cannon-like I then surcharged do break
And so my silence worse than speech I try.
Thus speech or none they both do breed my care
I live dismayed and kill my heart with grief
In all respects my case alike doth fare
To him that wants and dare not ask relief.
Then you fair Licia sovereign of my heart
Read to yourself my anguish and my smart.

Sweet I protest and seal it with an oath:
I never saw that so my thoughts did please
And yet content displeased I see them wroth
To love so much and cannot have their ease.
I told my thoughts my sovereign made a pause
Disposed to grant but willing to delay
They then repined for that they knew no cause
And swore they wished she flatly would say nay.
Thus hath my love my thoughts with treason filled
And 'gainst my sovereign taught them to repine.
So thus my treason all my thoughts hath killed
And made fair Licia say she is not mine.
But thoughts too rash my heart doth now repent
And as you please they swear they are content.

Fair matchless nymph respect but what I crave
My thoughts are true and honour is my love
I fainting die whom yet a smile might save
You gave the wound and can the hurt remove.
Those eyes like stars that twinkle in the night
And cheeks like rubies pale in lilies dyed
Those ebon hands that darting hath such might
That in my soul my love and life divide
Accept the passions of a man possessed
Let love be loved and grant me leave to live
Disperse those clouds that darkened have my rest
And let your heaven a sun-like smile but give!
Then shall I praise that heaven for such a sun
That saved my life whenas my grief begun.

My grief begun fair saint when first I saw
Love in those eyes sit ru]ing with disdain
Whose sweet commands did keep a world in awe
And caused them serve your favor to obtain.
I stood as one enchanted with a frown
Yet smiled to see all creatures serve those eyes
Where each with sighs paid tribute to that crown
And thought them gracd by your dumb rep]ies.
But I ambitious could not be content
Till that my service more than sighs made known
And for that end my heart to you I sent
To say and swear that fair it is your own.
Then greater graces Licia do impart
Not dumb replies unto a speaking heart.

Poets did feign that heavens a Venus had
Matchless herself
and Cupid was her son
Men sued to these and of their smiles were glad
By whom so many famous were undone.
Now Cupid mourns that he hath lost his might
And that these two so comely are to see
And Venus frowns because they have her right.
Yet both so like that both shall blameless be
With heaven's two twins for godhead these may strive
And rule a world with least part of a frown
Fairer than these two twins are not alive
Both conquering queens and both deserve a crown.
My thoughts presage which time to come shall try
That thousands conquered for their love shall die.

If aged Charon when my life shall end
I pass thy ferry and my waftage pay
Thy oars shall fall thy boat and mast shall rend
And through the deep shall be a dry foot-way.
For why? My heart with sighs doth breathe such flame
That air and water both incensd be
The boundless ocean from whose mouth they came
For from my heat not heaven itself is free.
Then since to me thy loss can be no gain
Avoid thy harm and fly what I foretell.
Make thou thy love with me for to be slain
That I with her and both with thee may dwell.
Thy fact thus Charon both of us shall bless
Thou save thy boat and I my love possess.

For if alone thou think to waft my love
Her cold is such as can the sea command
And frozen ice shall let thy boat to move
Nor can thy forces row it from the land.
But if thou friendly both at once shalt take
Thyself mayst rest. For why? My sighs will blow.
Our cold and heat so sweet a thaw shall make
As that thy boat without thy help shall row.
Then will I sit and glut me on those eyes
Wherewith my life my eyes could never fill.
Thus from my boat that comfort shall arise
The want whereof my life and hope did kill.
Together placed so thou her scorn shalt cross
Where if we part thy boat must suffer loss.

Are those two stars her eyes my life's light gone
By which my soul was fred from all dark?
And am I left distressed to live alone
Where none my tears and mournful tale shall mark?
Ah sun why shine thy looks thy looks like gold
When horsemen brave thou risest in the east?
Ah Cynthia pale to whom my griefs I told
Why do you both rejoice both man and beast?
And I alone alone that dark possess
By Licia's absence brighter than the sun
Whose smiling light did ease my sad distress
And broke the clouds when tears like rain begun.
Heavens grant that light and so me waking keep
Or shut my eyes and rock me fast asleep!

Cruel fair love I justly do complain
Of too much rigor and thy heart unkind
That for mine eyes thou hast my body slain
And would not grant that I should favour find.
I looked fair love and you my love looked fair
I sighed for love and you for sport did smile.
Your smiles were such as did perfume the air
And this perfumd did my heart beguile.
Thus I confess the fault was in mine eyes
Begun with sighs and ended with a flame.
I for your love did all the world despise
And in these poems honored have your name.
Then let your love so with my fault dispense
That all my parts feel not mine eyes' offense.

There shone a comet and it was full west.
My thoughts presagd what it did portend
I found it threatened to my heart unrest
And might in time my joys and comfort end.
I further sought and found it was a sun
Which day nor night did never use to set.
It constant stood when heavens did restless run
And did their Virtues and their forces let.
The world did muse and wonder what it meant
A sun to shine and in the west to rise
To search the truth I strength and spirits spent
At length I found it was my Licia's eyes.
Now never after soul shall live in dark
That hath the hap this western sun to mark.

If he be dead in whom no heart remains
Or lifeless be in whom no life is found
If he do pine that never comfort gains
And be distressed that hath his deadly wound
Then must I die whose heart elsewhere is clad
And lifeless pass the greedy worms to feed
Then must I pine that never comfort had
And be distressed whose wound with tears doth bleed.
Which if I do why do I not wax cold?
Why rest I not like one that wants a heart?
Why move I still like him that life doth hold
And sense enjoy both of my joy and smart?
Like Niobe queen which made a stone did weej)
Licia my heart dead and alive doth keep.

Like Memnon's rock touched with the rising sun
Which yields a sound and echoes forth a voice
But when it's drowned in western seas is done
And drowsy-like leaves off to make a noise
So I my love enlightened with your shine
A poet's skill within my soul I shroud
Not rude like that which finer wits decline
But such as Muses to the best allowed.
But when your figure and your shape is gone
I speechless am like as I was before
Or if I write my verse is filled with moan
And blurred with tears by falling in such store
Then muse not Licia if my Muse be slack
For when I wrote I did thy beauty lack.

I saw sweet Licia when the spider ran
Within your house to weave a worthless web
You present were and feared her with your fan
So that amazd speedily she fled.
She in your house such sweet perfumes did smell
And heard the Muses with their notes refined
Thus filled with envy could no longer dwell
But straight returned and at your house repined.
Then tell me spider why of late I saw
Thee lose thy poison and thy bowels gone
Did these enchant and keep thy limbs in awe
And made thy forces to be small or none?
No no thou didst by chance my Licia see
Who for her look Minerva seemed to thee.

If that I die fair Licia with disdain
Or heartless live surpris&eacuted with thy wrong
Then heavens and earth shall accent both my pain
And curse the time so cruel and so long.
If you be kind my queen as you are fair
And aid my thoughts that still for conquest strive
Then will I sing and never more despair
And praise your kindness whilst I am alive.
Till then I pay the tribute of my tears
To move thy mercy and thy constant truth.
Respect fair love how these with sorrow wears
The truest heart unless it find some ruth.
Then grace me sweet and with thy favor raise me
So shall I live and all the world shall praise thee.

Ah Licia sigh and say thou art my own
Nay be my own as you full oft have said.
So shall your truth unto the world be known
And I resolved where now I am afraid.
And if my tongue eternize can your praise
Or silly speech increase your worthy fame
If ought I can to heaven your worth can raise
The age to come shall wonder at the same.
In this respect your love sweet love I told
My faith and truth I vowed should be forever.
You were the cause if that I was too bold
Then pardon this my fault or love me never.
But if you frown I wish that none believe me
For slain with sighs I'll die before I grieve thee.

When first the sun whom all my senses serve
Began to shine upon this earthly round
The heavens for her all graces did reserve
That Pandor-like with all she might abound.
Apollo placed his brightness in her eyes
His skill presaging and his music sweet.
Mars gave his force
all force she now defies
Venus her smiles wherewith she Mars did meet
Python a voice Diana made her chaste
Ceres gave plenty Cupid lent his bow
Thetis his feet there Pallas wisdom placed.
With these she queen-like kept a world in awe.
Yet all these honors deemd are but pelf
For she is much more worthy of herself.

O sugared talk wherewith my thoughts do live!
O brows love's trophy and my senses' shine!
O charming smiles that death or life can give!
O heavenly kisses from a mouth divine!
O wreaths too strong and trammels made of hair!
O pearls inclosd in an ebon pale!
O rose and lilies in a field most fair
Where modest white doth make the red seem pale!
O voice whose accents live within my heart!
O heavenly hand that more than Atlas holds!
O sighs perfumed that can release my smart!
O happy they whom in her arms she folds!
Now if you ask where dwelleth all this bliss
Seek out my love and she will tell you this.
There dwells a spirit in the budding year--
As motherhood doth beautify the face--
That even lends these barren glebes a grace
And fills grey hours with beauty that were drear
And bleak when the loud storming March was here:
A glamour that the thrilled heart dimly traces
In swelling boughs and soft wet windy spaces
And sunlands where the chattering birds make cheer.
I thread the uplands where the wind's footfalls
Stir leaves in gusty hollows autumn's urns.
Seaward the river's shining breast expands
High in the windy pines a lone crow calls
And far below some patient ploughman turns
His great black furrow over steaming lands. Winter
Already Winter in his sombre round
Before his time hath touched these hills austere
With lonely flame. Last night without a sound
The ghostly frost walked out by wood and mere.
And now the sumach curls his frond of fire
The aspen-tree reluctant drops his gold
And down the gullies the North's wild vibrant lyre
Rouses the bitter armies of the cold.
O'er this short afternoon the night draws down
With ominous chill across these regions bleak
Wind-beaten gold the sunset fades around
The purple loneliness of crag and peak
Leaving the world an iron house wherein
Nor love nor life nor hope hath ever been.

This summer day is all one palace rare
Builded by architects of life unseen
In elfin hours the sun and moon between
Up out of quarries of the sea and air
And earth's fine essences. Aladdin's were
But tinsel sheen beside this gloried dream
High sunny-windowed walled by wood and stream
And high dome-roofed blue-burnished beyond compare.
Here reigns a king the happiest known on earth
That blithesome monarch mortals call the wind
Who roves his galleries wide in vagrant mirth
His courtier clouds obedient to his mind
Or when he sleeps his sentinal stars are still
With ethiop guards o'ertopping some grave hill.

Home of the pure in heart and tranquil mind
Temple of love's white silence holy Night
Greater than splendid thought or iron might
Thy lofty peace unswept by any wind
Of human sorrow leaves all care behind.
Uplifted to the zenith of thy height
My world-worn spirit drinks thy calm delight
And chrysalis-like lets slip its earthly rind.
The blinded feuds base passions and fierce guilt
Vain pride and falseness that enslaved the day
Here dwindle and fade with all that mocks and mars
Where wisdom awed walks hushed with lips that pray.
'Neath this high minster dim invisible built
Vast walled with deeps of space and roofed with stars.

Not unto endless dark do we go down
Though all the wisdom of wide earth said yea
Yet my fond heart would throb eternal nay.
Night prophet of morning wears her starry crown
And jewels with hope her murkiest shades that frown.
Death's doubt is kernelled in each prayer we pray.
Eternity but night in some vast day
Of God's far-off red flame of love's renown.
Not unto endless dark. We may not know
The distant deeps to which our hopings go
The tidal shores where ebbs our fleeting breath:
But over ill and dread and doubt's fell dart
Sweet hope eternal holds the human heart
And love laughs down the desolate dusks of death.

We are what nature made us
soon or late
Life's art that fadeth passeth slow away
With iron eatings of our sordid day
Leaving behind those influences innate
Immutable divine. As round some great
Rude craggy isle the loud surf's ravening fray
Shatters all life in spume of thundered spray
Leaving huge cliffs scarred grim in naked state.
So life and all its idols hath its hour
Its fleet ephemeral dream its passing show
Its pomp of fevered hopes that come and go:
Then stripped of vanity and folly's power
Like some wide water bared to moon and star
We know ourselves in truth for what we are.

Tossed from the falconer's hand in graceful flight
Of sweeping circles see the hawk arise
In joyful grandeur to her native skies!
Her bells quick rattling from her airy height
While over the head of lady and of knight
She sails majestic watchful of the prey
With dogs and hunters and the field's array:
Noble associate! fearful the delight
How ardent and how spiritual made
By her mysterious presence! we attend
On no dull moving earthiy power for aid
A hovering being of the skies our friend
So over the isle his wand the enchanter swayed
Proud on his faithful Ariel to depend.

Is it deep sleep or is it rather death?
Rest anyhow it is and sweet is rest:--
No more the doubtful blessing of the breath
Our God hath said that silence is the best
And thou art silent as the pale round moon
And near thee is our birth's great mystery:--
Alas we knew not thou wouldst go so soon!
We cannot tell where sky is lost in sea
But only find life's bark to come and go
By wondrous Nature's hidden force impelled--
Then melts the wake in sea and none shall know
For certain which the course the vessel held
The lessening ship by us no more is seen
And sea and sky are just as they have been.

Whilst the moon decks herself in Neptune's glass
And ponders over her image in the sea
Her cloudy locks smoothing from off her face
That she may all as bright as beauty be
It is my wont to sit upon the shore
And mark with what an even grace she glides
Her two concurrent paths of azure o'er
One in the heavens the other in the tides:
Now with a transient veil her face she hides
And ocean blackens with a human frown
Now her fine screen of vapour she divides
And looks with all her light of beauty down
Her splendid smile over-silvering the main
Spreads her the glass she looks into again.

You the choice minions of the proud-lipped nine
Who warble at the great Apollo's knee
Why do you laugh at these rude lays of mine?
I seek not of your brotherhood to be:
I do not play the public swan nor try
To curve my proud neck on your vocal streams.
In my own little isle retreated I
Lost myself in my waters and my dreams:
Forgetful of the world forgotten too
The cygnet of my own secluded wave
I sing whilst dashing up their silver dew
For joy the petty billows try to rave:
There is a still applause in solitude
Fitting alike my merits and my mood.
Bayard awaken not this music strong
While round thy home the indolent sweet breeze
Floats lightly as the summer breath of seas
O'er which Ulysses heard the Siren's song.
Dreams of low-lying isles to June belong
And Circe holds us in her haunts of ease
But later when these high ancestral trees
Are sere and such melodious languors wrong
The reddening strength of the autumnal year
Yield to heroic words thy ear and eye
Intent on these broad pages thou shalt hear
The trumpets' blare the Argive battle-cry
And see Achilles hurl his hurtling spear
And mark the Trojan arrows make reply!

She seemed an angel to our infant eyes!
Once when the glorifying moon revealed
Her who at evening by our pillow kneeled
Soft-voiced and golden-haired from holy skies
Flown to her loves on wings of Paradise--
We looked to see the pinions half concealed
The Tuscan vines and olives will not yield
Her back to me who loved her in this wise
And since have little known her but have grown
To see another mother tenderly
Watch over sleeping children of my own.
Perchance the years have changed her: yet alone
This picture lingers
still she seems to me
The fair young angel of my infancy.

Bring no more flowers and books and precious things!
O speak no more of our beloved Art
Of summer haunts--melodious wanderings
In leafy refuge from this weary mart!
Surely such thoughts were dear unto my heart
Now every word a newer sadness brings!
Thus oft some forest-bird caged far apart
From verdurous freedom droops his careless wings
Nor craves for more than food from day to day
So long bereft of wild-wood joy and song
Hopeless of all he dared to hope so long
The music born within him dies away
Even the song he loved becomes a pain
Full-freighted with a yearning all in vain.

The Soul of late a lovely sleeping child
Spreads sudden wings and stands in radiant guise
Eyed like the morn and bent upon the skies
Her the blue gulf dismays not nor the wild
Horizons with the wrecks of thunder piled
Storm has she known and how its murmur dies
Starlike through stainless heavens she would rise
And be no more with cloudy dreams beguiled.
Was sleep not sweet?--sweet till on sleeping ears
Earth's voices broke in discord. Now she hears
Far far away diviner music move
Nor shall her wing be sated of its flight
Nor shall her eyes be weary of the night
While round her sweep the singing stars of Love.

When the impatient spirit leaves behind
The clogging hours and makes no dear delay
To drop this Nessus-shirt of night and day
To cast the flesh that bound and could not bind
The heart untamable the tireless mind
In equal dissolution shall the clay
That once was seer or singer flee away--
It shall be fire and blown upon the wind.
Not us befits such change in radiance dressed
Not us O Earth for whom thou biddest cease
Our grey endurance of the dark and cold.
These eyes have watched with grief and now would rest
Rest we desire and on thy bosom's peace
The long slow change to unremembering mould.

My God where is that ancient heat towards thee
Wherewith whole shoals of martyrs once did burn
Besides their other flames? Doth poetry
Wear Venus' livery? only serve her turn?
Why are not sonnets made of thee? and lays
Upon thine altar burnt? Cannot thy love
Heighten a spirit to sound out thy praise
As well as any she? Cannot thy Dove
Outstrip their Cupid easily in flight?
Or since thy ways are deep and still the fame
Will not a verse run smooth that bears thy name!
Why doth that fire which by thy power and might
Each breast does feel no braver fuel choose
Than that which one day worms may chance refuse.
Sure Lord there is enough in thee to dry
Oceans of ink
for as the Deluge did
Cover the earth so doth thy Majesty:
Each cloud distills thy praise and doth forbid
Poets to turn it to another use.
Roses and lilies speak thee
and to make
A pair of cheeks of them is thy abuse
Why should I women's eyes for crystal take?
Such poor invention burns in their low mind
Whose fire is wild and doth not upward go
To praise and on thee Lord some ink bestow.
Open the bones and you shall nothing find
In the best face but filth
when Lord in thee
The beauty lies in the discovery.

As he that sees a dark and shady grove
Stays not but looks beyond it on the sky
So when I view my sins mine eyes remove
More backward still and to that water fly
Which is above the heav'ns whose spring and rent
Is in my dear Redeemer's pierced side.
O blessed streams! either ye do prevent
And stop our sins from growing thick and wide
Or else give tears to drown them as they grow.
In you Redemption measures all my time
And spreads the plaster equal to the crime:
You taught the book of life my name that so
Whatever future sins should me miscall
Your first acquaintance might discredit all.

Prayer the Church's banquet Angels' age
God's breath in man returning to his birth
The soul in paraphrase heart in pilgrimage
The Christian plummet sounding heav'n and earth
Engine against th' Almighty sinner's tower
Reversed thunder Christ-side-piercing spear
The six-days'-world transposing in an hour
A kind of tune which all things hear and fear
Softness and peace and joy and love and bliss
Exalted manna gladness of the best
Heaven in ordinary man well dressed
The milky way the bird of Paradise
Church bells beyond the stars heard the soul's blood
The land of spices something understood. 

Oh Book! infinite sweetness! let my heart
Suck ev'ry letter and a honey gain
Precious for any grief in any part
To clear the breast to mollify all pain.
Thou art all health health thriving till it make
A full eternity: thou art a mass
Of strange delights where we may wish and take.
Ladies look here
this is the thankful glass
That mends the looker's eyes: this is the well
That washes what it shows. Who can endear
Thy praise too much? thou art heav'n's Lidger here
Working against the states of death and hell.
Thou art joy's handsel: heav'n lies flat in thee
Subject to ev'ry mounter's bended knee.

Oh that I knew how all thy lights combine
And the configurations of their glory!
Seeing not only how each verse doth shine
But all the constellations of the story.
This verse marks that and both do make a motion
Unto a third that ten leaves off doth lie:
Then as dispersed herbs do match a potion
These three make up some Christians' destiny.
Such are thy secrets which my life makes good
And comments on thee: for in ev'ry thing
Thy words do find me out and parallels bring
And in another make me understood.
Stars are poor books and oftentimes do miss
This book of stars lights to eternal bliss.

Lord with what care hast thou begirt us round!
Parents first season us: then schoolmasters
Deliver us to laws
they send us bound
To rules of reason holy messengers
Pulpits and Sundays sorrow dogging sin
Afflictions sorted anguish of all sizes
Fine nets and stratagems to catch us in
Bibles laid open millions of surprises
Blessings beforehand ties of gratefulness
The sound of glory ringing in our ears
Without our shame
within our consciences
Angels and grace eternal hopes and fears.
Yet all these fences and their whole array
One cunning bosom-sin blows quite away. 

Lord how I am all ague when I seek
What I have treasured in my memory!
Since if my soul make even with the week
Each seventh note by right is due to thee.
I find there quarries of piled vanities
But shreds of holiness that dare not venture
To shew their face since cross to thy decrees:
There the circumference earth is heav'n the center.
In so much dregs the quintessence is small:
The spirit and good extract of my heart
Comes to about the many hundredth part.
Yet Lord restore thine image hear my call:
And though my hard heart scarce to thee can groan
Remember that thou once didst write in stone.

Having been tenant long to a rich Lord
Not thriving I resolved to be bold
And make a suit unto Him to afford
A new small-rented lease and cancel th' old.
In heaven at His manor I Him sought:
They told me there that He was lately gone
About some land which He had dearly bought
Long since on Earth to take possession.
I straight returned and knowing His great birth
Sought Him accordingly in great resorts--
In cities theatres gardens parks and courts:
At length I heard a ragged noise and mirth
Of thieves and murderers
there I Him espied
Who straight "Your suit is granted" said and died.

Wounded I sing tormented I indite
Thrown down I fall into a bed and rest:
Sorrow hath chang'd its note: such is his will
Who changeth all things as him pleaseth best.
For well he knows if but one grief and smart
Among my many had his full career
Sure it would carry with it ev'n my heart
And both would run until they found a bier
To fetch the body
both being due to grief.
But he hath spoil'd the race
and giv'n to anguish
One of Joy's coats 'ticing it with relief
To linger in me and together languish.
I live to shew his power who once did bring
My joys to weep and now my griefs to sing.

Let foreign nations of their language boast
What fine variety each tongue affords:
I like our language as our men and coast
Who cannot dress it well want with not words.
How neatly do we give one only name
To parents' issue and the sun's bright star.
A son is light and fruit
a fruitful flame
Chafing the father's dimness carried far
From the first man in th' East to fresh and new
Western discov'ries of posterity.
So in one word our Lord's humility
We turn upon him in a sense most true
For what Christ once in humbleness began
We him in glory call The Son of Man. 

All after pleasures as I rid one day
My horse and I both tir'd body and mind
With full cry of affections quite astray
I took up in the next inn I could find.
There when I came whom found I but my dear
My dearest Lord expecting till the grief
Of pleasures brought me to Him ready there
To be all passengers' most sweet relief?
O Thou whose glorious yet contracted light
Wrapt in night's mantle stole into a manger
Since my dark sould and brutish is Thy right
To Man of all beasts be not thou a stranger:
Furnish and deck my soul that thou mayst have
A better lodging than a rack or grave. 

My comforts drop and melt like snow:
I shake my head and all the thoughts and ends
Which my fierce youth did bandy fall and flow
Like leaves about me or like summer-friends
Flies of estates and sun-shine. But to all
Who think me eager hot and undertaking
But in my prosecutions slack and small
As a young exhalation newly waking
Scorns his first bed of dirt and means the sky
But cooling by the way grows pursy and slow
And settling to a cloud doth live and die
In that dark state of tears: to all that so
Show me and set me I have one reply
Which they that know the rest know more than I. 

No more these passion-worn faces shall men's eyes
Behold in life. Death leaves no trace behind
Of their wild hate and wilder love grown blind
In desperate longing more than the foam which lies
Splashed up awhile where the showered spray descries
The waves whereto their cold limbs were resign'd
Yet ever doth the sea-wind's undefin'd
Vague wailing shudder with their dying sighs.
For all men's souls 'twixt sorrow and love are cast
As on the earth each lingers his brief space
While surely nightfall comes where each man's face
In death's obliteration sinks at last
As a deserted wind-tossed sea's foam-trace--
Life's chilled boughs emptied by death's autumn-blast.

What are these things thou lovest? Vanity.
To see men turn their heads when thou dost pass
To be the signboard and the looking glass
Where every idler there may glut his eye
To hear men speak thy name mysteriously
Wagging their heads. Is it for this alas
That thou hast made a placard of a face
On which the tears of love were hardly dry?
What are these things thou lovest? The applause
Of prostitutes at wit which is not thine
The sympathy of shop-boys who would weep
Their shilling's worth of woe in any cause
At any tragedy.--Their tears and mine
What difference? Oh truly tears are cheap!

If I had chosen thee thou shouldst have been
A virgin proud untamed immaculate
Chaste as the morning star a saint a queen
Scarred by no wars no violence of hate.
Thou shouldst have been of soul commensurate
With thy fair body brave and virtuous
And kind and just
and if of poor estate
At least an honest woman for my house.
I would have had thee come of honoured blood
And honourable nurture. Thou shouldst bear
Sons to my pride and daughters to my heart
And men should hold thee happy wise and good.
Lo thou art none of this but only fair
Yet must I love thee dear and as thou art.

Oh! leave the Past to bury its own dead.
The Past is naught to us the Present all.
What need of last year's leaves to strew Love's bed?
What need of ghosts to grace a festival?
I would not if I could those days recall
Those days not ours. For us the feast is spread
The lamps are lit and music plays withal.
Then let us love and leave the rest unsaid.
This island is our home. Around it roar
Great gulfs and oceans channels straits and seas.
What matter in what wreck we reached the shore
So we both reached it? We can mock at these.
Oh! leave the Past if Past indeed there be.
I would not know it. I would know but thee.

Why do we fret at the inconstancy
Of our frail hearts which cannot always love?
Time rushes onward and we mortals move
Like waifs upon a river neither free
To halt or hurry. Sweet if destiny
Throws us together for an hour a day
In the backwater of this quiet bay
Let us rejoice. Before us lies the sea
Where we must all be lost in spite of love.
We dare not stop to question. Happiness
Lies in our hand unsought a treasure trove.
Time has short patience of man's vain distress
And fate grows angry at too long delay
And floods rise fast and we are swept away.

Lame impotent conclusion to youth's dreams
Vast as all heaven! See what glory lies
Entangled here in these base stratagems
What virtue done to death! O glorious sighs
Sublime beseechings high cajoleries
Fond wraths brave raptures all that sometime was
Our daily bread of gods beneath the skies
How are ye ended in what utter loss!
Time was time is and time is yet to come
Till even time itself shall have an end.
These were eternal--and behold a tomb.
Come let us laugh and eat and drink. God send
What all the world must need one day as we
Speedy oblivion rest for memory.

When I complained that I had lost my hope
Of life eternal with eternal God
When I refused to read my horoscope
In the unchanging stars or claim abode
With powers and dominations--but poor clod
Clung to the earth and grovelled in my tears
Because I soon must lie beneath the sod
And close the little number of my years--
Then I was told that pride had barred the way
And raised this foul rebellion! I but yesterday
Was God's own son in His own likeness bred.
And thrice strange pride! who thus am cast away
And go forth lost and disinherited.

If I could live without the thought of death
Forgetful of Time's waste the soul's decay
I would not ask for other joy than breath
With light and sound of birds and the sun's ray.
I could sit on untroubled day by day
Watching the grass grow and the wild flowers range
From blue to yellow and from red to grey
In natural sequence as the seasons change.
I could afford to wait but for the hurt
Of this dull tick of time which chides my ear.
But now I dare not sit with loins ungirt
And staff unlifted for death stands too near.
I must be up and doing--ay each minute.
The grave gives time for rest when we are in it.

To stand upon a windy pinnacle
Beneath the infinite blue of the blue noon
And underfoot a valley terrible
As that dim gulf where sense and being swoon
When the soul parts
a giant valley strewn
With giant rocks
asleep and vast and still
And far away. The torrent which has hewn
His pathway through the entrails of the hill
Now crawls along the bottom and anon
Lifts up his voice a muffled tremulous roar
Borne on the wind an instant and then gone
Back to the caverns of the middle air
A voice as of a nation overthrown
With beat of drums when hosts have marched to war.

Where art thou Love whose strange sweet light of yore
Made all the wide waste earth and seas and skies
As beautiful as erst was Paradise
When our first parents learnt thy blissful lore?
Where art thou gone? The winds and waters war
'Gainst me defenceless with unceasing strife
My heart is famished and my path of life
Unfruitful as a storm-tormented shore.
How dreadful is this world with thee away!
How coarse and common all beneath the sky
If thou thy all-atoning grace deny!
O Love! for thee I anguish night and day
And search the heavens again and yet again
For thy returning wings but still in vain!

As on a hidden voyage fast confined
A captive in his dungeon hears forlorn
Free winds and waves and muffled voices borne
From fleeting shores unknown soon left behind
And hearing beats against his narrow walls
And strives to pierce them that the moving skies
May lay his path in light before his eyes:
So hears my fettered soul at intervals
An outer world breathe near and tries the bond
And compass of her prison seeking still
To force some secret port from whose wide sill
She haply might look forth on light beyond
And see for weal or woe in Truth's pure ray
The mystery of Life's Voyage wane away.

It is not melody but harmony
That doth the Halls of Space with music fill:
The Universe was born of it and still
In every atom lives and moves thereby.
Yea each mere atom in that wondrous song
Hath its own part and thence the stars arise
And set to harmony and brotherwise
Bear one another's burdens and are strong.
But ah! the utt'rance of one note untrue
How faint soever! then like pain or fear
A sudden tremor runs from sphere to sphere
And all Creation doth the discord rue
E'en God's pure angels waver in their flight
Though but a moment to'ards the Throne of Light.

After so many days dark days and dire
In this wild land the home of savage men
To me forlorn 'neath alien stars again
Life wears the splendour of Promethean fire.
I hear the harping of the Pleiad choir
Once more once more the Music of the Spheres:
Back to my hand Olympian Clio bears
The seven-stringed foe of sorrow the sweet lyre.
Is this the valley where I groped astray
Huge mountain shadows making dark my way?
How strangely fair! at each step fairer yet!
And lo! an awful and a lovely sight
One far-off peak of calm unearthly light
God's great white throne it seems in Heaven set.

By fond heroic names in days of old
I spoke of thee and did not think to fear
Thy presence and what time thy step drew near
I stood in loneliness serenely bold
Ready to greet thee--waiting to behold
(Such was my faith) great love within thine eyes
Benign and light of light from Paradise
That should grow brighter as my heart grew cold.
Now all is changed! Thou winter spare the bough
Where love has built her dear and fragile nest!
Oh for the nestlings' sake! and hers whose breast
Protects them how I hate thee! hate thee! Thou
Hast laid thy hand upon my heart cruel Death
And lest I shriek aloud I bar my breath.

Now from my sum of life full seventy years
Have borne to my great Master their report
Wherein recorded to the slightest thought
The story of my vanished past appears.
Soon will He call me and not unawares
Hence from His vineyard where I stand with naught
But poor unprofitable service wrought
Counting the long array of sad arrears.
And then? A faint voice faintly understood
Replies: "He that created thee did mark
Yea search thee altogether and foreknew
Ere the first fibre of thy body grew
Ere yet thy spirit kindled from the dark--
Can he renounce thee and His Fatherhood?"

I sometimes wonder that the human mind
In searching for creation's hidden things
Should miss that high intelligence that springs
From that which is not seen but is divined.
Does knowing much of nature make us blind
To nature's better self? The Greek could see
A conscious life in every stream and tree
Some nymph or god. Our broader faith should find
A life divine whose fine pulsations roll
In endless surges through the secret veins
Of earth and sky which hidden still remains
Save to the instinct of the reverent soul
Should know that everything from lowest sod
To farthest star thrills with the life of God.

Rude mass of earth from which with moild hands
Compulsive taught the brittle tubes I form
Oft listless while my vagrant fancy warm
Roves heedless of necessity's demands
Amid Parnassian bowers or wishful eyes
The flights of genius while sublime she soars
Of moral truth in search or earth explores
Or sails with science through the starry skies:
Yet must I own unsightly clod! thy claim
To my attention for thou art my stead.
When grows importunate the voice of need
And in the furnace thy last change I speed
Ah! then how eager do I urge the flame
How anxious watch thee mid that glowing fire
That threats my eyeballs with extinction dire.

In gorgeous plumage azure gold and green
They trample the pale flowers and their shrill cry
Troubles the garden's bright tranquillity!
Proud birds of Beauty splendid and serene
Spreading their brilliant fans screen after screen
Of burnished sapphire gemmed with mimic suns--
Strange magic eyes that so the legend runs
Will bring misfortune to this fair demesne...
And my gay youth that vain and debonair
Sits in the sunshine--tired at last of play
(A child that finds the morning all too long)
Tempts with its beauty that disastrous day
When in the gathering darkness of despair
Death shall strike dumb the laughing mouth of song.

Thou last pale relic from yon widowed tree
Hovering awhile in air as if to leave
Thy native sprig reluctant how I grieve
And heave the sigh of kindred sympathy
That thou art fallen!--for I too whilom played
Upon the topmost bough of youth's gay spring
Have sported blithe on summer's golden wing
And now I see my fleeting autumn fade.
Yet 'sear and yellow leaf' though thou and I
Thus far resemble and this frame like thee
In the cold silent ground be doomed to lie
Thou never more will climb thy parent tree
But I through faith in my Redeemer trust
That I shall rise again even from the dust.

It comes--the awful hour!--compatriots dear
Who oft confiding in my honest zeal
And keen attachments to the public weal
Bent to my artless theme the partial ear
Now search my breast with scrutiny severe:
That breast which frequent in the swelling pride
Of youthful ardour the stern threats defied
Of distant danger:
mark if now base fear
Palsy its boasted future--or if now
(Forgetful of the truths so oft upheld)
Abject beneath the imperious foot I bow
Of terror-vested power--suppliant!--depressed!
Or one emotion feel but what the breast
Of Hampden or of Sidney might have swelled.

How far ye nymphs and dryads! must we stray
Beyond your once-loved haunts ere we again
May meet you in your freshness? My young day
Has oft-time seen me in your sylvan train
Culling the wild-wood flowers where now remain
Nor brake nor hedgerow nor clear bubbling stream
To feed their fragrance or the fervid ray
To mitigate
but to the flaunting beam
The domes of tasteless opulence display
Shadeless their glaring fronts
while the pure rill
That wont to parley or by noon or night
With Phoebus' or with Dian's softer light
Now through some drain obscene creeps dark and still
To sweep the waste of luxury away.

Renowned Britannia! loved parental land!
Regard thy welfare with a watchful eye!
Whenever the weight of want's afflicting hand
Wakes in thy vales the poor's persuasive cry
When wealth enormous sets the oppressor high
When bribes thy ductile senators command
And slaves in office freemen's rights withstand
Then mourn for then thy fate approacheth nigh!
Not from perfidious Gaul or haughty Spain
Nor all the neighbouring nations of the main
Though leagued in war tremendous round thy shore
But from thyself thy ruin must proceed!
Nor boast thy power
for know it is decreed:
Thy freedom lost thy power shall be no more!

He came in silvern armour trimmed with black--
A lover come from legends long ago--
With silver spurs and silken plumes a-blow
And flashing sword caught fast and buckled back
In a carven sheath of Tamarack.
He came with footsteps beautifully slow
And spoke in voice meticulously low.
He came and Romance followed in his track . .
I did not ask his name--I thought him Love
I did not care to see his hidden face.
All life seemed born in my intaken breath
All thought seemed flown like some forgotten dove.
He bent to kiss and raised his visor's lace . . .
All eager-lipped I kissed the mouth of Death.

Some things are very dear to me--
Such things as flowers bathed by rain
Or patterns traced upon the sea
Or crocuses where snow has lain . . .
The iridescence of a gem
The moon's cool opalescent light
Azaleas and the scent of them
And honeysuckles in the night.
And many sounds are also dear--
Like winds that sing among the trees
Or crickets calling from the weir
Or Negroes humming melodies.
But dearer far than all surmise
Are sudden tear-drops in your eyes.

When thou didst leave me Hope why didst thou not
In place of thy sweet presence leave Despair
With her grim visage and distorted hair?
The past the future then had been forgot--
The soul concentred on its blasted lot
Had rested mute and desolate of care--
Had ceased to question where its treasures were
And roamed no more the melancholy spot.
But now too much remembering of the past
So huge the weight of gloom around me spread
That I like one within a charnel cast
Hear but the dirges ringing for the dead--
Feel all the pangs of life and thought and breath
Yet walk I all the time with hand in hand of Death.

The Sabbath morning from the night awoke
All sunshine crowned: rough men disdaining toil
Had cleared their brows from work-day's hardening moil
And by the fountain left the cove'd yoke.
Through morning-glory and the hollyhock
And rich nasturtium shading with their coil
The cottage window and the heated soil
Aslant the white board floor the sunshine broke
And left a flowery tracery in the sheen.
This inward gleam the children newly kempt
And genial matron calm from work-day ways
Who sits with stately grace her flock between
And sings a Sabbath hymm meseems exempt
Like these from strife Seraphim Legions join the praise.

A simple thing yet chancing as it did
When life was bright with its illusive dreams
A pledge and promise seemed beneath it hid
The ocean lay before me tinged with beams
That lingering draped the west a wavering stir
And at my feet down fell a worn gray quill:
And eagle high above the darkling fir
With steady flight seemed there to take his fill
Of that pure ether breathed by him alone.
O noble bird! why didst thou loose for me
Thy eagle plume? still unessayed unknown
Must be that pathway fearless winged by thee:
I ask it not no lofty flight be mine
I would not soar like thee in loneliness to pine!
The sad light sayeth how all Autumn grieves
And how this rainy mist in heaven high
Doth wake the sorrowings that deepest lie.
Behold the silent forms shorn of their leaves
The elm the maple and the antique oak--
With gestures sorrowful they pray the sky.
Behold the rain-pools where the brown leaves soak
And the same mournful branches mirrored lie.
See how the sensuous mist cool-smelling slips
Like a wilful garment down from those wet limbs
Which will be gracious to the singing lips
Of the expected wind!--For he will come!
I hear him waken as the twilight dims
And my heart quickens and my words are dumb!

The passions of a child attend his dreams.
He lives loves hopes remembers is forlorn
For legendary creatures whom he deems
Not too unreal--until one golden morn
The gracious all-awaking sun shines in
Upon his tranquil pillow and his eyes
Are touched and opened greatly and begin
To drink reality with rich surprise.
I loved the impetuous souls of ancient story--
Heroic characters kings queens whose wills
Like empires rose achieved and fell in glory.
I was a child--until the radiant dawn
Thy beauty woke me. O thy spirit fills
The stature of those heroes they are gone!

When the enkindling spring upon the lea
Was quenched with water and the rainy throng
Of clouds perpetual had drowned her song--
Still thou didst lift thy heart and float to me
Over the mist thy lonely melody!
O swell again the throat and thrill the tongue
And rouse and ravish with thy passion young
The adoring air that drinks thine ecstasy!
She hides her beauty in the wavy shroud
Of April's swift and half-translucent cloud--
My love is lost in a more heavy shadow!
My love is buried in the arms of grief!
O send to her across the mourning meadow
That brighter sorrow thine--that music brief!

The eastern hill hath scarce unveiled his head
And the deliberate sky hath but begun
To meditate upon a future sun
When thou dost rise from thy impatient bed.
Thy morning prayer unto the stars is said.
And not unlike a child the penance done
Of sleep thou goest to thy serious fun
Exuberant--yet with a whisper tread!
And when that lord doth to the world appear
The jovial sun he leans on his old hill
And levels forth to thee a golden smile--
Thee in his garden where each warming year
Thou toilest in all joy with him to fill
And flood the soil with Summer for a while.

As the crag eagle to the zenith's height
Wings his pursuit in his exalted hour
Of her the tempest-reared whose airy power
Of plume and passion challengeth his flight
To that wild altitude where they unite
In mutual tumultuous victory
And the swift sting of natures ecstasy
Their shuddering pinions and their skyward might--
As they the strong to the full height of heaven
Bear up that joy which to the strong is given
Thus thus do we whose stormy spirits quiver
In the bold air of utter liberty
Clash equal at our highest I and thee
Unconquered and unconquering forever!

The boat is hauled upon the hardening sand
The mist is gathering o'er the dim morass
The kine are couching on the daisied grass
And in their stalls the champing horses stand.
No plash of brine along the darkling strand
No light winds play the reed-pipes as they pass
The moonlit deep is glittering like glass
And all things yield to stilly Night's command.
O balmy hours of silver sheen and dew!
Shall nought belie you save this labouring breast--
The soul alone to Nature be untrue
And still of what she hath not go in quest?
Just now ye spake. Ah speak those words anew
"Wait weary heart
soon thou shalt also rest."
Seems there a hand outstretched to bar the way
A voice that says "This door to you is closed"
Are all your plans mysteriously opposed
Your course of progress hampered by delay?
Seems chance to you but mischance with no ray
Of clear good-fortune through the clouds disclosed
Though some appear to thrive who idly dozed
While you were up and doing with the day?
So seems it to us all. Though long delayed
Your time will come so labor and be wise
So came the Indian's who had sought the aid
Of a small shrubit failed himin surprise
He frownedbut there in glittering veins displayed
Potosi's mine of silver met his eyes!

When you and I have play'd the little hour
Have seen the tall subaltern Life to Death
Yield up his sword
and smiling draw the breath
The first long breath of freedom
when the flower
Of Recompense hath flutter'd to our feet
As to an actor's
and the curtain down
We turn to face each other all alone--
Alone we two who never yet did meet
Alone and absolute and free: O then
O then most dear how shall be told the tale?
Clasp'd hands press'd lips and so clasp'd hands again
No words. But as the proud wind fills the sail
My love to yours shall reach then one deep moan
Of joy and then our infinite. Alone. Art's Use
Art's use! what is it but to touch the springs
Of nature? But to hold a torch up for
Humanity in Life's large corridor
To guide the feet of peasants and of kings!
What is it but to carry union through
Thoughts alien to thoughts kindred and to merge
The lines of colour that should not diverge
And give the sun a window to shine through!
What is it but to make the world have heed
For what its dull eyes else would hardly scan!
To draw in a stark light a shameless deed
And show the fashion of a kingly man!
To cherish honour and to smite all shame
To lend hearts voices and give thoughts a name!

It is enough that in this burdened time
The soul sees all its purposes aright.
The rest--what does it matter? Soon the night
Will come to whelm us then the morning chime.
What does it matter if but in the way
One hand clasps ours one heart believes us true
One understands the work we try to do
And strives through Love to teach us what to say?
Between me and the chilly outer air
Which blows in from the world there standeth one
Who draws Love's curtains closely everywhere
As God folds down the banners of the sun.
Warm is my place about me and above
Where was the raven I behold the dove. 

Colin my dear and most entire beloved
My muse audacious stoops her pitch to thee
Desireing that thy patience be not moved
By these rude lines written here you see
Fain would my muse whom cruel love hath wronged
Shroud her love-labors under thy protection
And I myself with ardent zeal have longed
That thou mightst know to thee my true affection.
Therefore good Colin graciously accept
A few sad sonnets which my muse hath framed
Though they but newly from the shell are crept
Suffer them not by envy to be blamed.
But underneath the shadow of thy wings
Give warmth to these young-hatchd orphan things.

Feed silly sheep although your keeper pineth
Yet like to Tantalus doth see his food.
Skip you and leap no bright Apollo shineth
Whilst I bewail my sorrows in yon wood
Where woeful Philomela doth record
And sings with notes of sad and dire lament
The tragedy wrought by her sister's lord
I'll bear a part in her black discontent.
That pipe which erst was wont to make you glee
Upon these downs whereon you careless graze
Shall to her mournful music tuned be
Let not my plaints poor lambkins you amaze
There underneath that dark and dusky bower

Whole showers of tears to Chloris I will pour
As true oblations of my sincere love
If that will not suffice most fairest flower
Then shall my sighs thee unto pity move.
If neither tears nor sighs can aught prevail
My streaming blood thine anger shall appease
This hand of mine by vigor shall assail
To tear my heart asunder thee to please.
Celestial powers on you I invocate:
You now the chaste affections of my mind
I never did my faith yet violate
Why should my Chloris then be so unkind?
That neither tears nor sighs nor streaming blood
Can unto mercy move her cruel mood.

When I more large thy praises forth shall show
That all the world thy beauty shall admire
Desiring that most sacred nymph to know
Which hath the shepherd's fancy set on fire
Till then my dear let these thine eyes content
Till then fair love think if I merit favor
Till then oh let thy merciful assent
Relish my hopes with some comforting savor.
So shall you add such courage to my muse
That she shall climb the steep Parnassus hill
That learned poets shall my deeds peruse
When I from thence obtaind have more skill.
And what I sing shall always be of thee
As long as life or breath remains in me!

Lo! this is she that ruled the world. Draw near:
Over her lowers the shadow of sudden death
To-morrow without heart-beat pulse or breath
Octavian's band shall find her lying here.
There at her side among the fig-leaves sere
Coils the cerastes hid unseen by us:
Yet is within those great eyes luminous
No fear nor any moment's touch of fear.
Let be. She is but tracing back the path
Trod through the life that is to end this night
Thinking of all the dead days' dear delight
Lute-music wine-cup dance and revelry
The sensuous stillness of the scented bath
Lip-touch and clasp and arms of Antony.
If I have ever told you all my heart
Was yours and perfect was the love it bore
Believe it not! For in the time past o'er
I like some world-wide traveler would start
And gaze astonished where the mountains part
Thinking of mountain peaks beyond no more
As dimly climbing from the heaven's blue shore
On loftier heights the splendor falls athwart.
So while I dream all perfect is the bliss
Which years have added to my soul in thine
And say here must be the eternal bound
Lo in my heart some thought of thee doth kiss
Into clear light that undetermined line
Which hovers on the heaven of love profound.

That thou art high above me I have found
Full oft
when all alone my heavy brain
Turns from itself to thee my thoughts regain
A place so far beyond their usual bound
I know they climb of other stairs the round
Than those which their aspiring flights restrain
In this dull house of clay. Come not in vain
Thy height shall raise me from this lifeless ground.
Let me from thine my lampless way rewin
Usurp this empty-falling tenement
With ruin underset o'erhung by night
Replenish it with all that once has been
When all it had or wished thy presence lent
And love trimmed fresh the intellectual light.

Rest hunted spirit! Canst thou never sleep?
Ah when the ghouls and vampires of the Press
Vex all thy tender soul in wantonness
Canst thou know aught of peace but still must weep!
What! shall thy heart's rich blood poured out so deep
Be made a merchandise without redress
Nor any voice the world's base deed confess
Which prints and sells a poet's love so cheap?
My curse upon this prying prurient age!
And curst the eyes not closed in angry shame!
For him whom English air and critic pen
Twice baffled ere his splendid youthful gage
Had measured half the heaven of love and fame
This shameless book has murdered once again!

He sits amid the ceaseless ebb and flow
Of human life in multitudes alone
And listens to their ceaseless monotone.
His sightless eyes see never to and fro
The hurrying waves in divers eddies go
See not the shadows on that ocean thrown
By cliff-like mocking walls of voiceless stone
Which shore the restless tides that sweep below.
Among them yet not one of them sits he
And sends his clear-toned music over all
Charming the waves to music as they roll.
Even thus great thoughts sweep over life's vast sea
Along the shores of time and the waves fall
And rise in rhythm under their control.

October's peace hath fallen on everything.
In the far west above the pine-crowned hill
With red and purple yet the heavens thrill--
The passing of the sun remembering.
A crow sails by on heavy flapping wing
(In some land surely the young Spring hath her will!)
Below the little city lieth still
And on the river's breast the mist-wreaths cling.
Here on this slope that yet hath known no plough
The cattle wander homeward slowly now
In shapeless clumps the ferns are brown and dead.
Among the fir-trees dusk is swiftly born
The maples will be desolate by morn.
The last word of the summer hath been said.

Though all the light were lifted from the land
And a great darkness lay upon the sea
Though groping each for some not-careless hand
I felt sad men pass over wearily
Though it were certain dawn would not come in
With the next hour
that after many days
Would no moon rise where the grey clouds grew thin
Nor any stars resume their ancient ways:
Though all my world was thus and I more blind
Than the dead blundering planets raining past
I know I should not fancy Time unkind
For you as once of old you came at last
Would surely come and with unfaltering faith
Lead me beyond the dominance of death.

Let us rise up and live! Behold each thing
Is ready for the moulding of our hand.
Long have they all awaited our command
None other will they ever own for king.
Until we come no bird dare try to sing
Nor any sea its power may understand
No buds are on the trees
in every land
Year asketh year some tidings of some Spring.
Yea it is time--high time we were awake!
Simple indeed shall life be unto us.
What part is ours?--To take what all things give
To feel the whole world growing for our sake
To have sure knowledge of the marvellous
To laugh and love--Let us rise up and live!

I marked the slow withdrawal of the year.
Out on the hills the scarlet maples shone--
The glad first herald of triumphant dawn.
A robin's song fell through the silence--clear
As long ago it rang when June was here.
Then suddenly a few grey clouds were drawn
Across the sky
and all the song was gone
And all the gold was quick to disappear.
That day the sun seemed loth to come again
And all day long the low wind spoke of rain
Far off beyond the hills
and moaned like one
Wounded among the pines: as though the Earth
Knowing some giant grief had come to birth
Had wearied of the Summer and the Sun.

This is a rune I ravelled in the still
Arrogant stare of an Australian cow--
"These prankt intruders of the hornless brow
Puffed up with strange illusions of their skill
To fence to milk to fatten and to kill
Once worshipped me with temple rite and vow
Crowned me with stars and bade rapt millions bow
Before what abject guess they called my will!
Today this flunkey of my midden Man
Throws child-oblations in my milking-byre
Stifles in slums to spare me lordly fields
Flatters with spotless consorts my desire
And for a pail of cream his birthright yields
As once in Egypt Hellas Ind Iran!"

Last sea-thing dredged by sailor Time from Space
Are you adrift Sargasso where the West
In halcyon calm rebuilds her fatal nest?
Or Delos of a coming Sun-God's race?
Are you for light and trimmed with oil in place
Or but a Will o' Wisp on marshy quest?
A new demesne for Mammon to infest?
Or lurks millennial Eden 'neath your face?
The cenotaphs of species dead elsewhere
That in your limits leap and swim and fly
Or trail uncanny harpstrings from your trees
Mix omens with the auguries that dare
To plant the Cross upon your forehead sky
A virgin helpmate Ocean at your knee.

Our manlier spirits hear and will obey
The Word YOU waft Australia o'er the sea--
'Be true be brave be merciful be free!'
Not you who braggart sent this wan array
Of hell-ships vomiting their Will-to-Slay
These armoured Hates and pallid Envies we
'Mid rattled mobs and flags hysteric see
Tarnish the chaste horizon of our Bay:
But YOU we hear our Comrades of the Cause
Who face hyaena Mammon in his den:
And YOU who dared your seas of blood to spill
To drag the swooning slave from vampire jaws:
Yea YOU who freed unborn Australia when
You singed King George's beard at Bunker's Hill.

This love that dares not warm before its flame
Our yearning hands or from its tempting tree
Yield fruit we may consume or let us claim
In Hymen's scroll of happy heraldry
The twining glyphs of perfect you and me --
May kindle social fires whence curls no blame
Find gardens where no fruits forbidden be
And mottoes weave unsullied by a shame.
For love unmothered Childhood wanly waits
For such as you to cherish it to Youth:
Raw social soils untilled need Love's own verve
That Peace a-flower may oust their weedy hates:
And where Distress would faint from wolfish sleuth
The perfect lovers' symbol is "We serve!"

Yet what were Love if man remains unfree
And woman's sunshine sordid merchandise:
If children's Hope is blasted ere they see
Its shoots of youth from out the branchlets rise:
If thought is chained and gagged is Speech and Lies
Enthroned as Law befoul posterity
And haggard Sin's ubiquitous disguise
Insults the face of God where'er men be?
Ay what were Love my love did we not love
Our stricken brothers so as to resign
For Its own sake the foison of Its dower:
That so we two may help them mount above
These layers of charnel air in which they pine
To seek with us the Presence and the Power? 

Too many a Samsan lip your teeth indent:
Too many a Sybil girl you lure to make
The Great Refusal for a fireside sake:
And glamoured poet many a look has sent
Into those eyeballs bear-brown somnolent
Nor dreamed that devils in each muddy lake
Were sucking his devotion in to slake
The furrowed belly of your fanged content!
Religion's bane and Freedom's subtlest foe!
Behold the poppied freight your barges bring
The dim-lit souls that crave the prophet's gleam
Or fettered people's writhing 'neath their woe--
Gossamer clips and thriftless harvesting
Of phantom flocks and shadowy tilth of dream!

My dreams dissolve the day's illusive net:
While crested Action's billows blinding beat
Omniscient Eyes in troughs of Faith I meet:
I wait with ancient stars until they set
Lest forward progress should their runes forget:
I am the rest that makes the bar complete:
And in the shackled body of Defeat
The womb of Baby Triumph living yet!
I am the blende of sleeping radiance:
The Siding where belated Industry
Draws from a Silent Tank tomorrow's zest:
Prophetic Art's preparatory Trance:
Dilating Force's Sabbath systole:
The Night of Brahm when worn Creators rest!

Black drips the ooze that you secrete on all
That Honour's burin graves or Love holds dear:
At sacrifice you laugh at virtue sneer
And sour rebellion's must the waking thrall
Would ripen into Freedom with the gall
Of green suspicion. God of drones you hear
Mutter of plots in all Success: on seer
And saint behold your own foul motives crawl.
O Gluttony that would but dare not gorge!
Theft of the heart that dreads the handcuff! Hate
Too cowardly to hurl the bolts you forge!
And Lust that fears to pluck the flowers you smell!
Too low your lintel to seduce the great!
The meanest of the Seven doors of Hell!
He spoke to us of Egypt in her prime
He showed us pictures of the rock-hewn kings
And Memnon's hoary bulk that no more sings
His greeting to the morning sun. The time
Slipped back through thirty centuries dim with rime
And mist that veils the dawn of human things
Until we felt the awe the great past brings
To us who dwell in this unstoried clime.
And then he paused and turned
the night was torn
With flying clouds but once there gleamed a star--
A single sun of all the heavenly band
And he "Lo! that dim light saw Egypt born
Before it all earth's ages moments are
And all her greatness but a grain of sand.

I never wholly feel that summer is high
However green the trees or loud the birds
However movelessly eye-winking herds
Stand in field ponds or under large trees lie
Till I do climb all cultured pastures by
That hedged by hedgerows studiously fretted trim
Smile like a lady's face with lace laced prim
And on some moor or hill that seeks the sky
Lonely and nakedly--utterly lie down
And feel the sunshine throbbing on body and limb
My drowsy brain in pleasant drunkenness swim
Each rising thought sink back and dreamily drown
Smiles creep o'er my face and smother my lips and cloy
Each muscle sink to itself and separately enjoy.

The traveller tells how in that ancient clime
Whose mystic monuments and ruins hoar
Still struggle with the antiquary's lore
To guard the secrets of a by-gone time
He saw uprising from the desert bare
Like a white ghost a city of the dead
With palaces and temples wondrous fair
Where moon-horn'd Isis once was worshipped.
But silence like a pall did all enfold
And the inhabitants were turn'd to stone --
Yea stone the very heart of every one!
Once to a rich man I this tale re-told.
"Stone hearts! A traveller's myth!" -- he turn'd aside
As Hunger begg'd pale-featured and wild-eyed.

Life is too short dear love for unkind feeling
Too short for harsh reproach or bitter tone
For us should be but gentle words alone:
If I have wronged you dear here let me kneeling
Low at your sidein penitence appealing
Seek pardon for a fault I had not known
Save that my love for you so strong had grown
It passed the bounds of reason's wise concealing.
Dear love by all our past of untold gladness
By every loving word and fond caress
Which filled our lives with such sweet happiness
Forgive forget that one brief hour of madness
Then may you know the highest joy of living
The God-like peace the sweetness of forgiving.

What need have I to fear--so soon to die?
Let me work on not watch and wait in dread:
What will it matter when that I am dead
That they bore hate or love that near me lie?
'Tis but a lifetime and the end is nigh
At best or worst. Let me lift up my head
And firmly as with inner courage tread
Mine own appointed way on mandates high.
Pain could but bring from all its evil store
The close of pain: hate's venom could but kill
Repulse defeat desertion could no more
Let me have lived my life not cowered until
The unhindered and unchastened hour was here.
So soon--what is there now for me to fear?

Bright crispd threads of pure translucent gold!
Ye who were wont with zephyr's breath to play
Over the warm cheek and ivory forehead stray
Or clasp her neck in many an amorous fold
Now motionless in this little shrine must hold:
No more to wanton in the eye of day
Or to the breeze your changeful hues display:
For ever still inanimate and cold.
Poor poor last relic of an angel's face!
Sad setting ray
--no more thy orb is seen!
O beauty's pattern miracle of grace
Must this be all that tells what thou hast been!--
Come then cold crystal on this bosom lie
Till love and grief and fond remembrance die!

Life's summer flown the wint'ry tempest rude
Began to lower on the declining year
When smiles celestial gilt the prospect drear
Dispell'd the gloom and joyful spring renew'd:
Fresh flowers beneath her fairy feet were strew'd
Again soft accents woo'd the enchanted ear
In her bright form as in a mirrour clear
Reflected each gay scene of life view'd.
Young in her youth and graceful in her grace
In her's I lived o'er every joy again
Lived o'er the charms that beam'd upon her face
Where Hope and Love revived their smiling train.
Night o'er the scene her blackest veil has spread
And Death's pale hand a tenfold horrour shed.

Why died I not before that fatal morn
That thunder'd in mine ears "Thy Child is gone
"Thy Joys are fled to Heaven
thy hope is done
"And thy few days to come are all forlorn!"
Why when the stroke too heavy to be borne
Had smote affrighted Reason from her throne
And life's chill power suspended
why too soon
Did the warm current to its course return!
Twice twenty summer suns had roll'd away
And seen my hours a clear smooth surface flow
Prepared already nature's debt to pay
Scarce would my head have shrunk beneath the blow.
Why now in misery do I lingering stay
While happiness foregone but mocks my woe?

Did I not weep for him that was in pain!
Was not my hand still open to distress!
When did my harden'd heart the weak oppress
Or Misery tell her plaintive tale in vain!
Did ever crime this bleeding bosom stain
Or injured sufferer claim unpaid redress!
Envy or hate or pride my soul possess
O wounded truth of broken laws complain!
Fate to my humble hopes one blessing gave
And no new gift my grateful breast required
"O Heaven! The object of my love but save!"
Was the sole boon my pious prayers desired:
Why then has angry Heaven atone dire blow
For ever laid my sorrowing head so low? 

Death! Thy cold hand the brightest flower has chill'd
That e'er suffused love's cheek with rosy dies
Quench'd the soft radiance of the loveliest eyes
And accents tuned to sweetest music still'd
The springing buds of hope and pleasure kill'd
Joy's cheerful measures changed to doleful sighs
Of fairest form and fairest mind the ties
For ever rent in twain--So Heaven has will'd!
Though in the bloom of health thy arrow fled
Sudden as sure
long had prophetic dread
Hung o'er my heart and all my thoughts depress'd.
Oft when in flowery wreaths I saw her dress'd
A beauteous victim seemed to meet my eyes
To early fate a destined sacrifice. 

What art thou Life? The shadow of a dream:
The past and future dwell in thought alone
The present ere we note its flight is gone
And all ideal vain fantastick seem.
Whence is thy source! And whither dost thou tend!
So short thy period and thy form so frail
Poor prisoner! pent in Death's surrounding vale
Born but to breathe to suffer and to end.
Why Shadow bring'st thou on thy raven wing
Dark trains of grief and visions of the night
Rather than graces robed in purple light
Elysian flowers and love's unclouded spring
Since sad or gay whatever be thy theme
Death surely ends at once the dreamer and the dream! 

Well has thy classick chisel Banks expressed
The graceful lineaments of that fine form
Which late with conscious living beauty warm
Now here beneath does in dread silence rest.
And oh while life shall agitate my breast
Recorded there exists her every charm
In vivid colours safe from change or harm
Till my last sigh unalter'd love attest.
That form as fair as ever fancy drew
The marble cold inanimate retains
But of the radiant smile that round her threw
Joys that beguiled my soul of mortal pains
And each divine expression's varying hue
A little senseless dust alone remains.

Dear Mansergh! Of the few this breast who share
And share in pitying sympathy its woe
You best my vast excess of passion know
And all the sorrow I am doom'd to bear
While thoughts can present with the past compare.
Shall memory e'er that summer-day forego
When thy fair Mate did every care bestow
And vermeil fruits and fragrant wreaths prepare
In honour of my Child to dress the bower!
And when the sweet epitome of grace
Tripp'd o'er the walks and honied every flower
You mark'd the opening beauties of her face
Mark'd how my captured soul was lost in love
And trembled for the dire reverse I prove.
Yes you have taken everything from me:
Beauty and love and all the measureless
Impatience of proud April
even our sea
Shouting under the gulls
all loveliness
Of form and sound and colour
all that we
Had touched
the curve of things we used to press
Glowing against our senses
mystery
And movement. . . everything taken. . . taken. . . Yes
Even the little brave irrelevancies
Like brooding water dripping water-cress
The cool dark noise of cropping
cruising bees
On hot gold expeditions--even these
You took from me--Oh spare me your caress
Leave me at least my own stark loneliness!

Were I as base as is the lowly plain
And you my Love as high as heaven above
Yet should the thoughts of me your humble swain
Ascend to heaven in honor of my love.
Were I as high as heaven above plain
And you my Love as humble and as low
As are the deepest bottoms of the main
Wheresoe'er you were with you my love shouuld go.
Were you the earth dear Love and I the skies
My love should shine on you like to the sun
And look upon you with ten thousand eyes
Till heaven waxed blind and till the world were dun.
Wheresoe'er I am below or else above you
Wheresoe'er you are my heart shall truly love you. 

They say that shadows of deceased ghosts
Do haunt the houses and the graves about
Of such whose life's lamp went untimely out
Delighting still in their forsaken hosts:
So in the place where cruel Love doth shoot
The fatal shaft that slew my love's delight
I stalk and walk and wander day and night
Even like a ghost with unperceived foot.
But those light ghosts are happier far than I
For at their pleasure they can come and go
Unto the place that hides their treasure so
And see the name with their fantastic eye:
Where I alas dare not approach the cruel
Proud moment that doth enclose my jewel.

The Shannon bore me to thy bosom wide:
I wandered with it on its winding way
By fields of yellow corn and new mown hay
And far blue hills that rose on either side
And low dark woods that fringed the ebbing tide
And ever as its waters neared the west
Out of the slumber of its broadening breast
Faint momentary ripples rose and died
And rose again before the breeze and grew
To wavelets dancing in the noonday light
And these were changed to waves of ocean blue
And creek and headland faded from the sight
And oh! at last--at last I floated free
On the long rollers of the open sea.

Oh! once again upon thy heaving breast
I floated like a seabird when it braves
The shoreward onset of thy flowing waves
And leaps triumphant on each rushing crest:
Round me in dark magnificent unrest
The billows of the wild Atlantic rolled
Far far away into the gates of gold
The sunlit portals of the stormy west:
O never wearied! In the hush of noon
Thy billows break the paths of golden sleep:
They break the dreamlike lustre of the moon
Earth knows the hours of darkness: thou dost keep
Eternal vigil: still thy surges white
Flash through the deepest gloom of starless night.

Now that the earth has hid her lovely brood
Of green things in her breast safe out of sight
And all the trees have stripped them for the fight
The winter comes with wild winds singing rude
Hoarse battle songs--so furious in feud
That nothing lives that has not felt their bite.
They sound a trumpet in the dead of night
That makes more solitary solitude.
Against the forest doors how fierce they beat!
Against the porch against the school-bound boy
With crimson cheek bent to his shaggy coat.
The earth is pale but steadfast hearing sweet
But far--how far away!--the stream of joy
Outpouring from a bluebird's tender throat.

O Master-Builder blustering as you go
About your giant work transforming all
The empty woods into a glittering hall
And making lilac lanes and footpaths grow
As hard as iron under stubborn snow
Though every fence stand forth a marble wall
And windy hollows drift to arches tall
There comes a might that shall your might o'erthrow.
Build high your white and dazzling palaces
Strengthen your bridges fortify your towers
Storm with a loud and a portentious lip
And April with a fragmentary breeze
And half a score of gentle golden hours
Shall leave no trace of your stern workmanship.

The great soft downy snow-storm like a cloak
Descends to wrap the lean world head to feet
It gives the dead another winding-sheet
It buries all the roofs until the smoke
Seems like a soul that from its clay has broke
It broods moon-like upon the Autumn wheat
And visits all the trees in their retreat
To hood and mantle that poor shiv'ring folk.
With wintry bloom it fills the harshest grooves
In jagged pine-stump fences. Every sound
It hushes to the footstep of a nun.
Sweet Charity! that brightens where it moves
Inducing darkest bits of churlish ground
To give a radiant answer to the sun.

Here in the crowded city's busy street
Swayed by the eager jostling hasting throng
Where Traffic's voice grows harsher and more strong
I see within the stream of hurrying feet
A company of trees in their retreat
Dew-bathed dream-wrapped and with a thrush's song
Emparadizing all the place along
Whose paths I hear the pulse of Beauty beat.
'Twas yesterday I walked beneath the trees
To-day I tread the city's stony ways
And still the spell that o'er my spirit came
Turns harshest sounds to shy bird ecstasies
Pours scent of pine through murky chimney haze
And gives each careworn face a woodland frame.

Dear grey-winged angel with the mouth set stern
And time-devouring eyes the sweetest sweet
Of kisses when two severed lovers meet
Is thine
the cruellest ache in hearts that yearn
The fears that freeze the hopes that leap and burn
Thine--thine! And thine the drum-and-trumpet beat
Of hearts that wait for unreturning feet
When comes at last the hour of their return.
Of Love's fair ministers thou art the chief.
To jaded souls asleep beside their vows
Thou givest hopes keen joys and vague alarms
Beneath thy touch the brown and yellow leaf
Turns to pink blossom and the spring-bright boughs
Frame lovers running to each other's arms.
Loud from its wicker cage the thrush yet sings
The blackbird pipes though now it may no more
Flit through the orchard as it did before
In spite of bars the lark its carollings
Still pours and stretches still its useless wings
As when it could at will to heaven soar.
In sooth though it should be a dungeon floor
The place is nought. If God has touched the strings
The music of his soul in melodies
E'en there the wretched captive will outpour
Will even there to dull insensate things
Attune his harp as Orpheus oft of yore
So poets tell in his sad wanderings
Played to the rocks and hills and brooks and trees.

Deck thee with jewels from the Indian mine
And fetch thy robes from silken Samarcand
Such never shall thy beauteous eyes outshine
Nor these outshame the lily of thy hand.
Take to thee gold
it shall not that outvie
Poured by thy locks in such a flowing stream
Lay to thy bosom pearls
and could these sigh
Then would they sigh that they might fairer seem.
But oh! ten thousand others can do this
And charm for charm display as well as thou
Can smile as sweet and as divinely kiss
And show as fair a hand as smooth a brow
Ten thousand others can do this but none
Can move this heart to love as thou hast done.

In Freedom's cause it were a joy to die!
The stake the dungeon and the gory block
These are the deep foundations of that rock
Whence rise the sacred walls of Liberty.
Each groan each tear each whitened hair each sigh
Each rusted chain each bolt each bar each lock
What are they but the powers at last which mock
The baffled rage of dying Tyranny?
Thus when all's done which mortal man can do
The last word spoken tyrants dread to hear
The last bow struck it were indeed a shame
If we at Freedom's call should fail to bear
With dignity that lot she grants but few--
To die and dying bless her sacred name.

As when a son by his dead father kneels
And cries "Forgive me! Father I repent!"
Those pallid lips make no acknowledgment
Nor any smile across those features steals
Yea though he grasps his hand the dead nor feels
Nor moves nor knows the form above him bent
But now past all approval or dissent
Turns a deaf ear to all that son's appeals:
So too with us when tearfully we stand
Beside dead memories of the days which were
Could we but grasp again that loving hand!
Could we but speak again to him or her!
In vain
as well expect at our command
The silent dead to smile again or stir.

Be nothing altered of all God hath done
For who can work divinely fair as He?
Who knows what is and more what is to be
And what to use and what to let alone
Nor doth He need to move again that stone
Once laid
nor doth He lack the power as we
To add to all its matchless symmetry
From Ophir gold and beams from Lebanon:
So to build up the white dome of the soul
A stately palace an eternal home
For God Himself at length made pure and fit
Where with great power the Lord Himself will come
And with assembled angels crown the whole
With songs and shoutings of "Grace! grace to it!"

I see thee go about thy household ways
And nothing count too irksome or too mean
Which being done had earned another's praise
Or being left some other's grief had been
Or being spoken had laid balm between
The breath of slander and the wounded part
Or being thought had caused the judgment lean
Less to the brain and more unto the heart.
And so from room to room I see thee move
And all the house to fill with quietness
That all who see thee must perforce thee love
That all who hear thee must perforce thee bless.
Like some bright angel doomed to penance here
For some slight fault so dost thou love appear.

O be thou 'ware since thus on thee I look
Thou lead me not in any wise astray.
Seek thou Heaven's grace
and lady see thou brook
No sin upon thy soul by night or day.
I toil on after
up the shining way
I would ascend
be thou my spirit's guide.
There is no joy like theirs who thus assay
Nor shall be crown that brighter shines beside.
I charge thee then by all of good and fair
That thou pursue unmoved thy upward road--
To fairer scenes to realms of purer air
To nobler heights to heaven and to God.
I follow on now near and now afar
But yet I follow on O my life's star!

Love Health but let it be the love of youth
Love Peace but let it be before the fray
Love Mercy but before you go astray
And you yourself have need of pitying ruth
Love Wisdom's ways but love them most in sooth
Ere Folly turns your locks to sober gray
Love Purity since love her well you may
But most of all love early golden Truth.
She is of such divinity that where
She leads all other graces still attend
As do the roses the sweet month of June
But she away those graces have an end
And perish as the flowers of summer soon
As autumn with his breath makes all things bare. 

Be nothing altered of all God hath done!
I would not now have back these weary years
To spend them other than I have thou tears
Alone could win them. What God hath begun
I pray to Him to finish. When we shun
Those ills our sin-sick heart for ever fears
And choose the good or that which good appears
Were God as we how soon our course were run!
Who knows life's chart entire knows best to steer
Our erring craft across its fitful sea.
Little our progress while the skies are clear
But when God's storm breaks forth tumultuously
Each fearful gust brings us to land more near
And to that haven where our souls would be.
White wings that over the hyacinthine sea
With joy or hope or sorrow long have sped
Since first he voyaged whom the Colchian wed
Bearing lone ships over many a salt degree
A voice came thence where ye were wont to be
A strange and serpent utterance
high over head
Trailed its dark breath
and with Ixion's tread
A keel passed by mocking the stormy lee.
Into the rack far lessening on it went
As once that antique lover of the cloud:
While ye to veering winds were bowed and bent
And ocean roared with his great voice aloud
Lashing his waves gainst isle and continent
Vexed with the wake that wheel-borne ship had ploughed. 

When I remember how nor separate chance
Nor restless traffic peopling many a shore
Nor old tradition with innumerous lore
But poets wrought our best inheritance
Sweet words and noble
in their gai science
That England heard and then for evermore
Loved as her own and did with deeds adore
I bless thee with a kindred heart Provence
For to thy tales like waves that come and go
Sat Chaucer listening with exulting ear
And casting his own phrase in giant mould:
That still had charms for sorrow's gentlest tear
Telling the story of Griselda's woe
"Under the roots of Vesulus the cold."

Soft comes the breath of spring it shakes the pear
White blooming
like a garden seems the mead
Thick with young grass on which the cattle feed
Tossing their heads at their dull wintry fare.
The bees seek honey through the moving air
That rocks the wild-duck on her nest of reed
By the sunlit water: Man doth say "God speed"
For joy the year's increase so soon to share
Low to himself he says it
where alas
Are the old rites? a dullard race are we
Clear shows of inner feeling fade and pass
There are no pomps to greet Eiarine.
Our hearts reflect as a smoke-darkened glass
When like a prison of crystal they should be.

How each sharp hammer of the minster clock
Cuts off a point of time until the bell
Up-carolling to the clouds with silvery swell
The sullen presage like a bird doth mock
But the day fleets and the shadow of the rock
Falls opposite to where at morn it fell
The bees come home each to her angular cell
Up to his hostel flies the roosting cock.
Now creep the beggars some with misery pined
To dungeon-pits
some where the woodland yields
Small shelter thinned for comfortable fires:
Some to lone huts such as the shepherd builds
Under a bank to shield him from the wind
In an old tree set round with thorns and briars.

There sat a maiden neath a regal tower
Girt with a forest of great oaks and pines
It seemed a lodge of some high conqueror
In the old days and round it creeping vines
Grew wildly that no more men drank of now
And in the topmost arch there was a bell
That with the wind did vibrate
vague and low
Sped over the hills its modulated swell
Palely she sat and at her side were things
Of strange device to measure earth and stars
And a small quiet genius with his wings
Upfolded and his eyes still fixed on hers
Men uttered not her queenly name but she
Had graved it in the dust Melancoly.

It is the winter sharp and suddenly
His angel frost hath breathed upon the land:
Tartuffe now at the chancel door doth stand
Dispensing loaves from others' charity
And round about him come a hungry band
With piteous voice and asking eyes but he
A little backward sheltered from the wind
A book turns over for the Church must be
Maintained and therein all who are behind
With Easter dues are writ
it is poverty
Moves them but duty stern his reverence
The loaves were given the Church with pious mind
And justly they by wanting must be fined
Although it grieves him till they pay their pence.

The tide comes up the black and gusty river
Slowly against it makes a boat its way
In the rough gale the bending sedges shiver
The dripping piles fling back the shattered spray
There is a church but none who come to pray--
For it is a week-day and made fast the door
But onward by a willow-sheltered bay
Hangs forth a sign more tempting to the boer
Wild sing the breezes from the northern sea
Flustering the topsails on the coast's low line
Windly sings Hans within the lattice he
Is flustered too but it is with brantewein:
See on the sands a wandering group appear
Mynherr Verkoop the pedlar and his gear.

The black waves come in lashing the old walls
The shipless harbour from the shipless sea
The dreary wind sinks down at intervals--
Winter is here and yet it spring should be
Chasing the snows with sweet regality
And the wild hills enamelling with flowers
That now the myrtle sore and pallidly
Turning its branches from the salt spray-showers
Reigns over alone on yon deserted towers
An aloe grows but its tall bloom is dead
Deep in his chink the bright green lizard cowers
Sunshiny elf and fears the stranger's tread
Rolling the loose stones down the steep but he
Loves thee quaint creature and thy watchful head.

To the short days and the great vault of shade
The whitener of the hills we come--alas
There is no colour in the faded grass
Save the thick frost on its hoar stems arrayed.
Cold is it: as a melancholy maid
The latest of the seasons now doth pass
With a dead garland in her icy glass
Setting its spikes about her crispd braid.
The streams shall breathe along the orchards laid
In the soft spring-time
and the frozen mass
Melt from the snow-drift
flowerets where it was
Shoot up--the cuckoo shall delight the glade
But to new glooms through some obscure crevasse
She will have past--that melancholy maid.

Arise up England from the smoky cloud
That covers thee the din of whirling wheels:
Not the pale spinner prematurely bowed
By his hot toil alone the influence feels
Of all this deep necessity for gain:
Gain still
but deem not only by the strain
Of engines on the sea and on the shore
Glory that was thy birthright to retain.
O thou that knewest not a conqueror
Unchecked desires have multiplied in thee
Till with their bat-wings they shut out the sun:
So in the dusk thou goest moodily
With a bent head as one who gropes for ore
Heedless of living streams that round him run.

Not by Aldobrandini's watery show
Still plashing at his portal never dumb
Minished of my devotion shalt thou come
Leaving thy natural fount on Algido
Wild wingd daughter of the Sabine snow
Now creeping under quiet Tusculum
Now gushing from those caverns old and numb
Dull were his heart who gazed upon thee so.
Emblem thou art of Time memorial stream
Which in ten thousand fancies being here
We waste or use or fashion as we deem
But if its backward voice comes ever near
As thine upon the hill how doth it seem
Solemn and stern sepulchral and severe!

Let others sing of Mars and of his train
Of great exploits and honourable scars
The many dire effects of Civil Wars
Death's triumphs and encomiums of the slain.
I sing the conflicts I myself sustain
With her (Great Love) the cause of all my cares
Who wounds with looks and fetters with her hairs.
This mournful tale requires a tragic strain.
Eyes were the Arms did first my Peace control
Wounded by them a source of Tears there sprung
Running like blood from my afflicted soul
Thou Love to whom this conquest does belong
Leave me at least the comfort to condole
And as thou wound'st my Heart inspire my Song.

O Love who in my breast's most noble part
Didst that fair Image lodge that Form Divine
In whom the sum of Heavenly Graces shine
And there ingrav'dst it with thy golden dart.
Now mighty Workman! Help me by thy art
(Since my dull pen trembles to strike a line)
That I on paper copy the design
By thee express'd so lively in my heart.
Lend me when I this great attempt do try
A feather from thy wings that whilst to write
My hand's employ'd my thoughts may soar on high
Thy Torch which fires our hearts and burns so bright
My darker fancy let its flame supply
And through my numbers dart celestial light.

Now angry Juno sends from Heaven in spite
Rivers and Seas instead of moderate showers
Horror invests the world and the bright Hours
Of Delos' God are chang'd to dismal Night.
So crowds of anxious thoughts on ev'ry side
Invade my soul and through my restless eyes
I shed such streams of tears my heart e'en tries
Death's pangs whilst I by force in life abide.
But the brisk gales which rising by and by
Where Sol at night in Thetis' lap shall lie
Will make Heaven clear and drive away the rain.
Ah Cynthia! That the blasts or sighs I vent
Could ease my breast of cloudy discontent
Which still with fresh assaults renews my pain. 

Come all ye Wits that with immortal rhymes
Glory to others and yourselves create:
And you that gratify the future times
Whilst tales of Love and battles ye relate
Come turn your studies and your eyes this way
This theme will crown your heads with lasting bays
'Tis Cynthia's beauty Heavenly Cynthia
Come swell your volumes all with Cynthia's praise.
Posterity will then your works admire
And for her sake shall them as jewels prize
All things to Cynthia's glory must conspire
She shall be worshipp'd with the deities.
To her make foreign lands pay honours due
Thus shall you live by her and she by you.

Fair Cynthia mounted on her sprightly pad
Which in white robe with silver fringe was clad
And swift as wind his graceful steps did move
As with his beauteous guide he'd been in love.
Though fierce yet humble still to her command
Obeying ev'ry touch of her fair hand
Her golden bit his foaming mouth did check
It spread his crest and rais'd his bending neck.
She was the rose upon this hill of snow
Her sparkling beauty made the glorious show
Whence secret flames men in their bosoms took:
The Graces and the Cupids her surround
Attending her while cruel she does wound
With switch her horse and hearts with ev'ry look. 

Whate'er the world could boast of fair or good
Thy back with pride has borne thou happy Horse
By which thou'rt fall'n in middle of thy course
Too feeble to sustain so great a load.
Oh happy fall! Oh dying full of bliss!
Whilst she that guided Love did guide thy head
Big with this thought thou willingly art dead
Scorning another burden after this.
A Heaven of Beauty over-press'd thy back
This might have made Alcides' shoulders crack
And Atlas truckle under such a weight:
Heav'n thee amongst its horses long'd to see
As here the world was late in love with thee
When carrying her who to the sun gave light.

If Love it be not what is this I feel?
If it be Love what Love is fain I'd know?
If good why the effects severe and ill?
If bad why do its torments please me so?
If willingly I burn should I complain?
If 'gainst my will what helps it to lament?
Oh living Death! oh most delightful pain!
How comes all this if I do not consent?
If I consent 'tis madness then to grieve
Amidst these storms in a weak boat I'm tost
Upon a dangerous sea without relief
No help from Reason but in Error lost.
Which way in this distraction shall I turn
That freeze in Summer and in Winter burn?

Barefoot and ragged with neglected hair
She whom the Heavens at once made poor and fair
With humble voice and moving words did stay
To beg an alms of all who pass'd that way.
But thousands viewing her became her prize
Willingly yielding to her conquering eyes
And caught by her bright hairs whilst careless she
Makes them pay homage to her poverty.
So mean a boon said I what can extort
From that fair mouth where wanton Love to sport
Amidst the pearls and rubies we behold?
Nature on thee has all her treasures spread
Do but incline thy rich and precious head
And those fair locks shall pour down showers of gold. 

Since cruel Thyrsis you my torments slight
And take no notice of my amorous flame
In these vermilion letters thus I write
My bloody reasons to confirm the same.
These of my passion are the lively marks
Which from my veins you here in blood see writ
Touch them your breast will kindle with the sparks
The ardent characters are reeking yet.
Nor can my pen alone my heart explain
My very soul o'ercharg'd with grief I fain
Would send enclos'd herein the truth to prove.
And if I've been too sparing of my blood
This is the reason why I stopp'd the flood
I would not spoil the face I'd have you love.

Courted by Cupids and the amorous air
Upon a shady throne at her repose
She sate than whom none e'er so sweet or fair:
It was the Queen of Flowers the blushing rose.
With no less pride upon his bed of state
A Lily pale with envy look'd that way
With humble flowers encompass'd round he sate
And scorn'd the sceptre at her feet to lay.
To arms with thorns and prickles they prepare
And each designs to try it out by war
Till on good counsel they in rule combine:
So in your face the lovely White and Red
Cynthia I see all quarrels banishd
And Rose and Lily do in empire join. 

If Theban Pindar rais'd his country's fame
Whilst its great deeds he does in odes rehearse
And they made greater by his noble verse
In gratitude are trophies to his name:
Then English Pindar shall for ever live
Since his divine and lofty poetry
Secur'd great Regglo by thy harmony
Shall to itself immortal glory give.
The world's amaz'd to hear the sweet consent
Betwixt thy charming voice and instrument
They'd stop the bays which from Apollo fled
Thy skilful notes would make in full career
Phoebus the God of Music stay to hear
And with his Daphne crown thy rival head. 

You who to fam'd Guarini now he's dead
Your verses consecrate and statues rear
For that sweet Padan swan your tears have shed
Sweetest that ever did or will sing here.
Behold this picture on his fun'ral pile
Your mournful spirits 'twill with joy revive
Tho' th' artist cheats your senses all the while
For 'tis but paint which you would swear does live.
This serves to keep our friend in memory
Since Death hath robb'd us of his better part
And that he so might live as ne'er to die
He drew himself too but with diff'rent art.
Judge which with greatest life and spirit looks
Borgianni's painting or Guarini's Books. 

I make no war and yet no peace have found
With heat I melt when starv'd to death with cold.
I soar to Heav'n while grovelling on the ground
Embrace the world yet nothing do I hold.
I'm not confin'd yet cannot I depart
Nor loose the chain tho' not a captive led
Love kills me not yet wounds me to the heart
Will neither have m' alive nor have me dead.
Being blind I see
not having voice I cry:
I wish for Death while I of Life make choice
I hate myself yet love you tenderly
Do feed of tears and in my grief rejoice.
Thus Cynthia all my health is but disease
Both life and death do equally displease.

I to Love's garden came with my attire
Was wove with herbs of Hope and of Desire
Branches of Trouble too by me were worn
Whose flowers and fruit were Prejudice and Scorn.
'Twas wall'd with Pain and Anguish round about
And from a thousand places issu'd out
Water of Grief and Air of Sighs beside
Deceit and Cruelty did there reside.
Pride was the Keeper
and to cultivate
Was Jealousy who still with mortal Hate
Tare up my happiness ere it could grow
Whilst like a madman thus I strive to sow
Under the shadow of a thought that's kind
I plough in stone dig water stop the wind. 

I fill with sighs the air whene'er I stand
On yon' high hill and thence survey the plain
Where Laura she who could my heart command
Did in her Earthly Paradise remain.
For now she's dead and left me here alone
Griev'd for her loss that I could gladly die
Drowning my eyes in making of my moan
My tears have left no space about me dry.
There is no stone upon that craggy hill
Nor these sweet fields an herb or plant do bring
Nor flower 'mongst all that do the valleys fill
Nor any drop of water from the spring
Nor beasts so wild that in the woods do dwell
But of my grief for Laura's death can tell. 

Oh Death! without regard to wrong or right
All things at will thy boundless rage devours
This tender plant thou hast cut down in spight
And scatter'd on the ground its fruit and flowers.
Our love's extinct that with such ardour burn'd
And all my hope of future pleasure dies
Nature's chief master-piece to earth's return'd
Deaf to my passion and my grievous cries.
Sylvia the tears which on thy sepulchre
Hereafter shall be shed or those now are
Tho' fruitless yet I offer them to thee
Until the coming of th' Eternal Night
Shall close these eyes once happy with thy sight
And give me eyes with which I thee may see.

O Time! Oh rolling Heavens that fly so fast
And cheat us mortals ignorant and blind!
Oh fugitive Day swifter than bird or wind!
Your frauds I see by all my suff'rings past.
But pardon me 'tis I myself must blame
Nature that spreads your wings and makes you fly
To me gave eyes that I my ills might spy:
Yet I retain'd them to my grief and shame.
Time was I might and Time is still I may
Direct my steps in a securer way
And end this sad infinity of ill
Yet 'tis not from thy yoke O Love I part
But the effects
I will reclaim my heart:
Virtue's no chance but is acquir'd by skill.

Vile Composition Earth inspir'd with breath
Man that at first wert made of dust and tears
And then by law divine condemn'd to death
When wilt thou check thy lusts in their careers?
Change all thy mirth to sorrow and repent
That thou so often didst just Heav'n offend
Deplore thy precious hours so vainly spent
If thou wilt 'scape such pains as have no end.
The gaping grave expects thee as its right
'Tis a strait place but can contain with ease
Honour Command Wealth Beauty and Delight
And all that does our carnal senses please.
Only th' immortal soul can never die
Therefore on that thy utmost care employ.

Th' unruly steed by laws to tame and ride
With graceful course the well-pois'd lance to guide
In martial sports ever to win the prize
And troops with skill and judgement exercise:
In a calm breast a warlike heart to show
To glory friend to wantonness a foe
To keep on Passion Reason's powerful hand
Over his soul and self to have command:
To sport with books whilst arms aside he lays
To interweave the olive with the bays
When tir'd with arts to tune Apollo's lyre
To merit honours ere he them desire.
These fruits which others bring with art and time
Your blooming age does yield before your prime. 

Will spurs me on Love wounds me with his dart
Pleasure does draw me Custom pulls me too
Hope flatters that I should my ends pursue
And lends her right hand to my fainting heart.
My wretched heart accepts nor yet espies
The weakness of my blind disloyal guide
My Passions rule long since my Reason died
And from one fond Desire still others rise.
Virtue and Wealth Beauty and Graceful Mien
Sweet Words and Person fair as e'er was seen
Were the allurements drew me to her net:
'Twas Thirteen hundred twenty sev'n the year
April the sixth this Nymph did first appear
And tied me so I ne'er shall Freedom get. 

Pleasure in thought in weeping ease I find
I catch at shadows grasp air with my hand
On seas I float are bounded with no land
Plough water sow on rocks and reap the wind.
The sun I gaz'd so long at I became
Struck with its dazzling rays and lost my eyes
I chase a nimble doe that always flies
And hunt with a dull creature weak and lame.
Heartless I live to all things but my ill
Which I'm solicitous to follow still
And only call on Laura Love and Death.
Thus twenty years I've spent in misery
Whilst only sighs and tears and sobs I buy
Under such hard stars first I drew my breath.

Oh eyes! Our Sun's extinct and at an end
Or rather glorified in Heav'n does shine
There shall we see her there does she attend
And at our long delay perchance repine.
Alas my ears the voice you lov'd to hear
Is now rais'd up to the celestial choir
And you my feet she's gone that us'd to steer
Your course where you till death can ne'er aspire.
Cannot my soul nor body yet be free?
'Twas not my fault you this occasion lost
That seeing hearing finding her y' are crost:
Blame Death or rather blest be ever He
Who binds and looses makes and can destroy
And when Life's done crowns with Eternal Joy.

This Nightingale that does so much complain
Robb'd of her tender young or dearest mate
And to the fields and heav'ns her tale relate
In such sad notes but yet harmonious strain
Perhaps this station kindly does retain
To join her griefs with my unhappy state
'Twas my assurance did my woe create:
I thought Death could not have a Goddess slain.
How soon deceiv'd are those who least mistrust!
I ne'er could think that face should turn to dust
Which than all human beauties seem'd more pure:
But now I find that my malicious fate
Will to my sorrow have me learn too late:
Nothing that pleases here can long endure.

Hold treacherous thoughts that dare my rule despise
Is 't not enough 'gainst me in war are join'd
Love Fortune and grim Death but I must find
Within me such domestic enemies?
And thou my heart that dost my peace oppose
Disloyal thou wilt give my soul no rest
But harb'ring still these thoughts within my breast
Keep'st correspondence with my deadly foes
To thee Love all his messages conveys
Fortune my now departed pomp displays
Death in my mind does all my griefs express
That my remains fall by necessity
My thoughts with errors arm themselves in thee:
Thou art the cause of my unhappiness. 

Why Idol of my Heart these mournful cries
And so much grief on those fair cheeks appears?
From whence proceed those envious showers of tears
Dark'ning the lustre of thy beauteous eyes?
How dares hold Sorrow labour to remove
So many graces from their proper place?
Ah Cynthia! Pain endeavours in thy face
To poison all the sweetest charms of Love.
Sense of thy grief my soul with anguish fills
Which out of pity into tears distills
And for thy ease would fain endure thy woe!
But this affliction sure thy heart sustains
That cruel Thou being sensible of pains
May'st to thy constant martyr pity show. 

Near a cool fountain on a rose-bed lay
My Cynthia sleeping in the open air
Whom Sol espied and seeing her so fair
Gaz'd till his wanton coursers lost their way.
The proudest flowers were not asham'd to find
Their scent and colour rivall'd in her face
Her bright curl'd hairs were toss'd from place to place
On neck and bosom by the amorous wind.
Her smiles were animated by her breath
Which still as soon as born receiv'd their death
Being mortal made in pity to men's hearts:
Poor Lovers then did lie and take their rest
For the Blind Boy who does our peace molest
Had in her sleeping eyes hid all his darts.

I lov'd thee faithless Man and love thee still
Thou fatal object of my fond desires
And that which nourishes these amorous fires
Is Hope by which I love against my will.
Great was the passion thou didst late express
Yet scorn'st me now whom long thou didst adore
Sporting with others her thou mind'st no more
Whom thou hast call'd thy Heav'n and happiness.
Think not by this thy Lesbia thee invites
To spend thy years in dalliance and delights
'Tis but to keep her faith in memory
But if to grieve my soul thou only strive
To thy reproach and to my boast I'll live
A monument of thy INCONSTANCY. On Lydia Distracted
With hairs which for the wind to play with hung
With her torn garments and with naked feet
Fair Lydia dancing went from street to street
Singing with pleasant voice her foolish song.
On her she drew all eyes in ev'ry place
And them to pity by her pranks did move
Which turn'd with gazing longer into Love
By the rare beauty of her charming face.
In all her frenzies and her mimicries
While she did Nature's richest gifts despise
There active Love did subt'ly play his part.
Her antic postures made her look more gay
Her ragged clothes her treasures did display
And with each motion she ensnar'd a heart.

Unhappy I came from my Mother's womb
As she Oh blessed She! who gave me breath
Having receiv'd the fatal stroke of Death
By weeping friends was carried to her Tomb.
The sorrow I exprest and grievous cries
Love's tribute were for her to Heav'n was gone
My coffin and my cradle both were one
And at her sunset mine began to rise.
Wretch how I quake to think on that sad day!
Which both for Life and Death at once made way
Being gave the son and mother turn'd to earth.
Alas I die! Not that Life hastes so fast
But that to me each minute seems the last
For I in Death's cold arms receiv'd my Birth.

I dreamt by me I saw fair Venus stand
Holding young Cupid in her lovely hand
And said Kind Shepherd I a Scholar bring
My little son to learn of you to sing.
Then went away
and I to gain her praise
Would fain have taught him all my rural lays
How Pan found out the Pipe Pallas the Flute
Phoebus the Harp and Mercury the Lute.
These were my subjects which he still would slight
And fill my ears with Love-Songs day and night
Of mortals and of Gods what tricks they us'd
And how his mother Venus them abus'd.
So I forgot my pupil to improve
And learn'd of him by songs the Art of Love.

Chaste Cynthia bids me love but hope no more
Ne'er with enjoyment--which I still have strove
T' obey and ev'ry looser thought reprove
Without desiring her I her adore.
What human passion does with tears implore
The intellect enjoys when 'tis in love
With the eternal soul which here does move
In mortal closet where 'tis kept in store.
Our souls are in one mutual knot combin'd
Not common passion dull and unrefin'd
Our flame ascends that smothers here below:
The body made of earth turns to the same
As Soul t' Eternity from whence it came
My Love's immortal then and mistress too. 

Help! Help! Ye Nymphs whilst on the neighb'ring plain
Your flocks do feed come and assistance bring
Alas! Fair Cynthia's sick and languishing
For whom my heart endures a greater pain.
Ye Syrens of the Thames let all your train
Tune their shrill Instruments and to them sing
And let its flow'ry banks with echoes ring
This may her wonted cheerful looks regain.
Ye herbs that richest med'cines can produce
Come quickly and afford such sov'reign juice
As from her heart may all the pains remove:
But in her face if death would paleness give
And Fate ordain that she in torment live
Then let her suffer in the flames of Love.

My hairs are hoary wrinkled is my Face
I lose my strength and all my manly grace
My eyes grow dim my teeth are broke or gone
And the best part of all my life is done
I'm drown'd in cares and often sigh and weep
My spirits fail me broken is my sleep
Thoughts of the gaping grave distract my head
For in its paths 'wake or asleep we tread
None can from it by art their feet restrain
Nor back tho' wide its gates can come again.
Then since these ills attend the life of man
Let's make their burden easy as we can.
Cares are no cares but whilst on them we think
To clear our minds of such dull thoughts let's drink.

Led by kind stars one ev'ning to the grove
I spied my Cynthia in the Walk of Love
Her heav'nly voice did soon salute my ears
I heard methought the Music of the Spheres.
Those notes on all the birds had laid a spell
And list'ning 'mongst the rest was Philomel
Who thinking she in credit suffer'd wrong
Strove tho' in vain to equal Cynthia's song
But when herself in voice outdone she knew
Being griev'd she ceas'd and from her rival flew
I stay'd and saw my fair walk round the tree
And sing her triumph for the victory.
Thus whilst my ears were feasted with delight
My eyes no less were charm'd at her angelic sight.

Why dost thou fly me thus? Oh cruel boy!
I am no wolf that would thy life destroy:
But a fond Nymph admirer of thy face
As Echo once of fair Narcissus was.
Thou e'en in dangers dost thy fancy please
Striving with toil the hunted game to seize:
While wretched me who languish for thy sake
When in thy net thou dost refuse to take.
But I alas in vain attempt to find
Effects of pity in a hard'ned mind:
As soon the hare its hunters may pursue
As I with prayers thy cruel heart subdue.
My pow'r I see cannot thy steps retain
Thus led by sports and wing'd by thy disdain. 

Jove saw the sphere old Archimedes made
And to the other Gods he laughing said
"Such wondrous skill can crafty mortals get
Of my great work to make the counterfeit?
Heav'n's and Earth's constitutions fixt by Fate
This Syracusan's art does imitate
His various planets their just order have
Keeping by springs the motions which he gave
Thro' the twelve signs his Sun completes its years
And each new month his mock new-Moon appears
Pleas'd with his World this artist unconfined
Boldly rules Heav'n in his aspiring mind.
No more Salmoneus' thunder I admire
Here's one has ap'd all Nature's works entire."

The life we strive to lengthen out
Is like a feather rais'd from ground
Awhile in air 'tis tost about
And almost lost as soon as found
If it continue long in sight
'Tis sometimes high and sometimes low
Yet proudly aims a tow'ring flight
To make the more conspicuous show.
The air with ease its weight sustains
Since 'tis by Nature light and frail
Seldom in quiet state remains
For troops of dangers it assail.
And after various conflicts with its foes
It drops to Earth the Earth from whence it rose.

No human thing in constancy will stay
The learned Chian us'd of old to say
Our life was frailer than the fading leaves
Which Man forgets and scarce its flight perceives
He harbours idle fancies in his brain
Many which he from childhood did retain:
And whilst his vigour lasts he's still inclin'd
To fill with trifles his unsettled mind
On Age or Death ne'er thinks nor takes he care
Health to preserve or active limbs to spare.
We to more serious things our minds should give
Youth hastes and we have little time to live.
To weigh this well is a material part
This thought's of worth record it in thy heart. 

See whilst thou weep'st fair Chloe see
The world in sympathy with thee.
The cheerful birds no longer sing
Each drops his head and hangs his wing:
The clouds have bent their bosom lower
And shed their sorrows in a shower
The brooks beyond their limits flow
And louder murmurs speak their woe:
The nymphs and swains adopt thy cares:
They heave thy sighs and weep thy tears
Fantastic nymph! that Grief should move
Thy heart obdurate against Love.
Strange tears whose power can soften all
But that dear breast on which they fall.

Spirit of mine that soon must venturous spread
Through voids unknown thy feeble fluttering plumes
Hast thou no fear to wing those endless glooms?
No apprehension nor misgivings dread?
Those realms unfathomed of the speechless dead
Which never gleam of eldest star illumes--
Lethean canyons that the Soul entombs--
Art thou not awed such sombre vasts to tread?
My Soul replied: "Wisdom hath made all things--
Life and the end of life He gives to thee.
Down Death's worn path the mightiest still have trod.
Where laurelled poets and anointed Kings
Have gone for ages it is good to be--
Rest thou contented with the will of God." 

Upon a cloud among the stars we stood:
The angel raised his hand and looked and said
"Which world of all yon starry myriad
Shall we make wing to?" The still solitude
Became a harp whereon his voice and mood
Made spheral music round his haloed head.
I spoke--for then I had not long been dead--
"Let me look round upon the wastes and brood
A moment on these orbs ere I decide. . .
What is yon lower star that beauteous shines
And with soft splendor now incarnadines
Our wings?--There would I go and there abide."
Then he as one who some child's thought divines:
"That is that world where yesternight you died."

Sole Lord of Lords and very King of Kings
He sits within the desert carved in stone
Inscrutable colossal and alone
And ancienter than memory of things.
Graved on his front the sacred beetle clings
Disdain sits on his lips
and in a frown
Scorn lives upon his forehead for a crown.
The affrighted ostrich dares not dust her wings
Anear this Presence. The long caravan's
Dazed camels pause and mute the Bedouins stare.
This symbol of past power more than man's
Presages doom. Kings look--and Kings despair:
The sceptres tremble in their jeweled hands
And dark thrones totter in the baleful air!

Dear Love lean nearer--let your finger-tips
Reach till they touch the rose within my palm.
Through the hushed dusk I feel the fragrant balm
Of your faint breathing as the tired breast dips
And rises drowsful as a bee that sips
Honey too avid from the numbing flowers. . .
Close the sad eyes and for one little hour
Let slumber soothe the dear leave-taking lips.
Ah sweet! were it not better for each heart
Before the cruel years achieve their will--
For us who must irrevocably part
To pass the lintel of the door of Death
Lip touching lip I breathing faintly still
The poignant sweetness of your fading breath?

The evening comes: the boatman lifts the net
Poles his canoe and leaves it on the shore
So low the stream he does not use the oar
The umber rocks rise like a parapet
Up through the purple and the violet
And the faint-heard and never-ending roar
Of moving waters lessens more and more
While each vague object looms a silhouette.
The light is going
but low overhead
Poises the glory of the evening star
The fisher silent on the rocky bar
Drops a still line in pools of fading red
And in the sky where all the day lies dead
Slowly the golden crescent sinks afar. 

The soldier fought his battle silently.
Not his the strife that stays for set of sun
It seemed this warefare never might be done
Through glaring day and blinding night fought he.
There came no hand to help no eye to see
No herald's voice proclaimed the fight begun
No trumpet when the bitter field was won
Sounded abroad the soldier's victory.
As if the struggle had been light he went
Gladly life's common road a little space
Nor any knew how his heart's blood was spent
Yet there were some who after testified
They saw a glory grow upon his face
And all men praised the soldier when he died. 

Small fellowship of daily commonplace
We hold together dear constrained to go
Diverging ways. Yet day by day I know
My life is sweeter for thy life's sweet grace
And if we meet but for a moment's space
Thy touch thy word sets all the world aglow.
Faith soars serener haunting doubts shrink low
Abashed before the sunshine of thy face. Nor press of crowd nor waste of distance serves
To part us. Every hush of evening brings
Some hint of thee true-hearted friend of mine
And as the farther planet thrills and swerves
When towards it through the darkness Saturn swings
Even so my spirit feels the spell of thine. Separation
Along the Eastern shore the low waves creep
Making a ceaseless music on the sand
A song that gulls and curlews understand
The lullaby that sings the day to sleep.
A thousand miles afar the grim pines keep
Unending watch upon a shoreless land
Yet through their tops swept by some wizard hand
The sound of surf comes singing up the steep.
Sweet thou canst hear the tidal litany
I mid the pines land-wearied may but dream
Of the far shore
but though the distance seem
Between us fixed impassable to me
Cometh thy souls voice chanting loves old theme
And mine doth answer as the pines the sea. Absent
My friend I need thee in good days or ill
I need the counsel of thy larger thought
And I would question all the year has brought--
What spoil of books what victories of will
But most I long for the old wordless thrill
When on the shore like children picture-taught
We watched each miracle the sweet day wrought
While the tide ebbed and every wind was still. 
Dear let it be again as if we mused
We two with never need of spoken word
(While the seas fingers twined among the dulse
And gulls dipped near) our spirits seeming fused
In the great Life that quickens wave and bird
Our hearts in happy rhythm with the world-pulse. Thus Far
Because my life has lain so close to thine
Because our hearts have kept a common beat
Because thine eyes turned towards me frank and sweet
Reveal sometimes thine untold thoughts to mine
Think not that I by curious design
Or over-step of too impetuous feet
Could desecrate thy souls supreme retreat
Could disregard its quivering barrier-line. 
Only a simple Levite I who stand
On the worlds side of the most holy place
Till as the new day glorifies the east
One come to lift the veil with reverent hand
And enter with thy souls soul face to face--
He whom thy God shall call to be high priest. 

The morning brought a stranger to my door
I know not whence such feet as his may stray
From what still heights along what star-set way
A child he seemed yet my eyes fell before
His eyes Olympian. I did implore
Him enter linger but one golden day
To bless my house. He passed he might not stay
And though I call with tears he comes no more.
At noon there stole a beggar to my gate
Of subtle tongue the porter he beguiled.
His creeping evil steps my house defiled.
I flung him scornful alms I bade him straight
To leave me. Swift he clutched my fee and smiled
Yet went not forth nor goes despite my hate.
The Christmas bells ring discord overhead
The angel-song fell silent long ago
Nor seer nor silly shepherd comes star-led
To kneel to-night beside a babys bed.
Peace is not yet and wrong and want and woe
Cry in the streets and love is slow
And sin is sleek and swift and housed and fed. 
Dear Lord our faith is faint our hearts are sore
Our prayers are as complaints our songs as cries
Fain would we hear the angel-voice once more
And see the Star still lead along the skies
Fain would like sage and simple folk of yore
Watch where the Christ-child smiles in Marys eyes. 

The Southwind brought a voice
was it of bird?
Or faint-blown reed? or string that quivered long?
A haunting voice that woke into a song
Sweet as a childs low laugh or lovers word.
We listened idly till it grew and stirred
With throbbing chords of joy of love of wrong
A mighty music resonant and strong
Our hearts beat higher for that voice far-heard. 
The Southwind brought a shadow purple-dim
It swept across the warm smile of the sun
A sudden shiver passed on field and wave
The grasses grieved along the rivers brim.
We knew the voice was silent the song done
We knew the shadow smote across a grave.
A wealth of silence that is all. The air
Lacks life and holds no hint of tender spring
Of flowers wholesome-blowing birds a-wing
Of any creature much-alive and fair.
Perhaps you guess a murmur here and there
Among the tomes each book a gossip thing
And each in her own tongueyet slumbering
Seems more the bookish fashion everywhere.
And yet could but the souls take flesh again
That wrought these words their hearts all passion-swirled
What companies would flock and fill the stage
Resuming now their old imperious reign
Knight noble lady priest the saint and sage
The valor bloom and wisdom of a world!

He's not alone an artist weak and white
O'erbending scented paper toying there
With languid fancies fashioned deft and fair
Mere sops to time between the day and night.
He is a poor torn soul who sees aright
How far he fails of living out the rare
Night-visions God vouchsafes along the air
Until the pain burns hot beyond his might.
The heart-beat of the universal will
He hears and spite of blindness and disproof
Can sense amidst the jar a singing fine.
Grief-smitten that his lyre should lack the skill
To speak it plain he plays in paths aloof
And knows the trend is starward life divine.

I saw a picture once by Angelo
"Unfinished" said the critic "done in youth"
And that was all no thought of praise forsooth!
He was informed and doubtless it was so.
And yet I let an hour of dreaming go
The way of all time touched to tears and ruth
Passion and joy the prick of Conscience's tooth
Before that careworn Christ's divine soft glow.
The painter's yearning with an unsure hand
Had moved me more than might his master days:
He seemed to speak like one whose Mecca land
Is first beheld tho' faint and far the ways
Who may not then his shaken voice command
Yet trembles forth a word of prayer and praise. 

Thou wast not robbed of wonder when youth fled
But still the bud had promise to thine eyes
And beauty was not sundered from surprise
And reverent as reverend was thy head.
Thy life was music and thou mad'st it ours
Not thine crude scorn of gentle household things
And yet thy spirit had the sea-bird's wings
Nor rested long among the chestnut-flowers.
Spain's coast of charm and all the North Sea's cold
Thou knewest and thou knewest the soul of eld
And dusty scroll and volume we beheld
To gold transmuted--not to hard-wrought gold
But that clear shining of the eastern air
When Helios rising shakes the splendour of his hair. 

With throb of throstle and with throat of wren
Full of soft cheepings comes the longed-for May
With myriad murmuring life throughout each day
It grows and greens in grove and field and glen.
Gleam marigolds across each fragrant fen
The fields grow bright with dandelion gold
The buttercups are yellow on the wold
Till all the earth is made glad unto men.
And thus May comes most like some sylvan queen
Her trailing garments fringed with green and gold
And passes by with shimmer and with sheen
Of all her verdure till she reach the fold
That rose-crowned June will offer her between
His flower-wreathed arms in fragrances untold.

My heart a haunted manor is where Time
Has fumbled noiselessly with mouldering hands:
At sunset ghosts troop out in sudden bands
At noon 'tis vacant as a house of crime
But when unseen as sound the night-winds climb
The higher keys with their unstilled demands
It wakes to memories of other lands
And thrills with echoes of enchanted rhyme.
Then through the dreams and hopes of earlier years
A fall of phantom footsteps on the stair
Approaches near and ever nearer yet
A voice rings through my life's deserted ways:
I turn to greet thee Love. The empty air
Holds but the spectre of my own regret. 

The circling hills of woods and clouds snow-white
Held in the golden hour of eventide
The lake by which I walked and seemed to hide
From view a world yet lovelier whose light
Streamed up behind their heights and made them glow
As wrapped in purest flame and flung on high
Bright flakes of glory 'gainst the pale blue sky
Which bridged with paths of light the lake below.
I felt sweet music that I could not hear
I saw a poem that I could not read
"What place is this" I cried! Lo at my need
Two lovers passed--"'Twas Paradise! for clear
I saw it shining in his happy eyes
I heard it murmur'd in her low replies.

Oh you who love me not tell me some way
Whereby I may forget you for a space
Nay clean forget you and your lovely face--
Yet well I know how vain this prayer I pray.
All weathers hold you. Can I make the May
Forbid her boughs blow white in every place?
Or rob June of her rose that comes apace?
Cheat of their charm the elder months and gray?
Aye were you dead you could not be forgot
So sparse the bloom along the lanes would be
Such sweetness out the briery hedges fled
My tears would fall that you had loved me not
And bitterer tears that you had gone from me
Living you break my heart so would you dead! 

When I consider Life and its few years --
A wisp of fog betwixt us and the sun
A call to battle and the battle done
Ere the last echo dies within our ears
A rose choked in the grass
an hour of fears
The gusts that past a darkening shore do beat
The burst of music down an unlistening street--
I wonder at the idleness of tears.
Ye old old dead and ye of yesternight
Chieftains and bards and keepers of the sheep
By every cup of sorrow that you had
Loose me from tears and make me see aright
How each hath back at once he stayed to weep:
Homer his sight David his little lad!
What mellow radiance wraps the slumbering world
Soothing its harshness with benignant hand!
Against a lustrous amber background stand
Black-bordered leaves and branches loosely-swirled
In flushed or citrine-tinted heaps close-curled
The apples rest
the orange pumpkins yield
To cumbrous sleep
and on the spreading field
The tasselled tents of ripened corn are furled.
Elusive spirits flutter everywhere
'Mid moist brown leaves and all the vaporous air
Is filled with whispering in an unknown tongue.
Yet not unknown
Thy praise is every sound
The teeming earth Thine altar is fruit-crowned
The moon a golden censer near it swung. 

Too long alas! through life's tempestuous tide
Heedless of heaven my giddy course I steered
Linked with the scoffing crew nor aught revered
Great nature's god: such erring dreams belied
My fancy swollen with unsubstantial pride:
While uglier far than have been feigned or feared
Ten thousand phantoms to my sight appeared
And drew me darkling far from truth aside.
But vigorous now with eagle-ken restored
By nobler means aiming at nobler ends
To the mild bosom of its saving lord
Elate with ardent hope my soul ascends
While over the dreadful gulf yet unexplored
Religion's golden sun its evening beam extends. 

Ingenious insect but of ruthless mould
Whose savage craft (as nature taught) designs
A mazy web of death
the filmy lines
That form thy circling labyrinth enfold
Each thoughtless fly that wanders near the hold
Sad victim of thy guile
nor aught avail
His silken wings nor coat of glossy mail
Nor varying hues of azure jet or gold:
Yet though thus ill the fluttering captive fares
Whom heedless of the fraud thy toils trepan
Thy tyrant fang that slays the stranger spares
The bloody brothers of thy cruel clan
While man against his fellows spreads his snares--
Then most delighted when his prey is man. 

Within her hair Venus and Cupid sport them
Some time they twist it amber-like in gold
To which the whistling winds do oft resort them
As if they strove to have the knots unrolled
Some time they let their golden tresses dangle
And therewith nets and amorous gins they make
Wherewith the hearts of lovers to entangle
Which once enthralled no ransom they will take.
But as two tyrants sitting in their thrones
Look on their slaves with tyrannizing eyes
So they no whit regarding lovers' moans
Doom worlds of hearts to endless slaveries
Unless they subject-like swear to adore
And serve Emaricdulfe forevermore. 

I am enchanted with thy snow-white hands
That maze me with their quaint dexterity
And with their touch tie in a thousand bands
My yielding heart ever to honor thee
Thought of thy dainty fingers long and small
For pretty action that exceed compare
Sufficient is to bless me and withal
To free my chaind thoughts from sorrow's snare.
But that which crowns my soul with heavenly bliss
And gives my heart fruition of all joys
Their dainty concord and sweet music is
That poisons grief and cureth all annoys.
Those eyes that see those ears are blest that hear
These heavenly gifts of nature in my dear. 

My heart is like a ship on Neptune's back
Thy beauty is the sea where my ship saileth
Thy frowns the surges are that threat my wrack
Thy smiles the winds that on my sails soft galeth.
Long tossed betwixt fair hope and foul despair
My sea-sick heart arrivd on thy shore--
Thy love I mean--begs that he may repair
His broken vessel with thy bounteous store.
Dido relieved Aeneas in distress
And lent him love and gave to him her heart
If half such bounty thou to me express
From thy fair shore I never will depart
But thank kind fortune that my course did sort
To suffer shipwreck on so sweet a port.

Young rose that budded by Eurotas's stream
(I've thumbed through Rand McNally and -- I know!)
All ages headline your shy April dream
And whisper "Helen . . . Paris . . . Yes it's so!"
Homer retailed the rhythm of the oars
That scarred the sea of time in that wild ride
Poets have peered and peeped of those old shores
Where you -- and war -- splashed in Scamander tide.
Your posthumous publicity fills reams
And reams of incandescent lyrics whirled
Wherever man desires or woman dreams
Of love with cheeks on fire and lids half furled . . .
How far that little scandal sheds its beams!
So shines a naughty deed in a good world.

Could I have sung one Song that should survive
The singer's voice and in my country's heart
Find loving echo--evermore a part
Of all her sweetest memories
could I give
One great Thought to the People that should prove
The spring of noble action in their hour
Of darkness or control their headlong power
With the firm reins of Justice and of Love
Could I have traced one Form that should express
The sacred mystery that underlies
All Beauty and through man's enraptured eyes
Teach him how beautiful is Holiness--
I had not feared thee. But to yield my breath
Life's Purpose unfulfilled!--This is thy sting O Death!

Strange Truth and Beauty are enemies
Treading forever on each other's toes!
Strange rhymes are always made of that which is
Too false or silly to be said in prose!
Now here's a sonnet by our village poet
"Inscribed to Kate" in most romantic style
Whereas--and one with half an eye might know it--
He means Sophronia Tompkins all the while.
He sings of "golden curls." If fiery tresses
Had heat to match their hue her hair would burn
He mentions "airy grace"--while she possesses
A form as shapeless as an old-time churn
Heavens! after this I never shall inquire
Why people always call the poet's song a LYRE!

Ambitious views never fired my lowly breast
Contented competence to me a throne
In some sequestered vale my head to rest
And on some kindred heart repose my own.
To share such toil as gives to ease its zest
Such temperate mirth as wisdom's self might own
A cot within with smiles and neatness dressed
Without with fragrant woodbine overgrown.
Secure to please the sweetest task confessed
The aim to please entirely one alone
With love and peace and union to be blessed
By fashion's slaves unnoticed and unknown.
To have a little for the more distressed
And with kind deeds the want of wealth atone.
That God should love me is more wonderful
Than that I so imperfectly love him.
My reason is mortality and dim

his--oh insupportable--
Is that he sees me. Even when I pull
Dark thoughts about my head each vein and limb
Delights him though remembrance in him grim
With my worst crimes should prove me horrible.
And he has terrors that he can release.
But when he looks he loves me
which is why
I wonder
and my wonder must increase
Till more of it shall slay me. Yet I live
I live
and he has never ceased to give
This glance at me that sweetens the whole sky.

After long drought commotion in the sky
After dead silence thunder. Then it comes
The rain. It slashes leaves and doubly drums
On tin and shingle
beats and bends awry
The flower heads
puddles dust and with a sigh
Like love sinks into grasses where it hums
As bees did once among chrysanthemums
And asters when the summer thought to die.
The whole world dreamed of this and has it now.
Nor was the waking easy. The dull root
Is jealous of its death
the sleepy brow
Smiles in its slumber
and a heart can fear
The very flood it longed for roaring near.
The spirit best remembers being mute. 

Equality is absolute or no.
Nothing between can stand. We are the sons
Of the same sire or madness breaks and runs
Through the rude world. Ridiculous our woe
If single pity does not love it. So
Our separate fathers love us. No man shuns
His poorest child's embrace. We are the sons
Of such or ground and sky are soon to go.
Nor do born brothers judge as good or ill
Their being. Each consents and is the same
Or suddenly sweet winds turn into flame
And floods are on us--fire earth water air
All hideously parted as his will
Withdraws no longer fatherly and there.

The deepest dream is of mad governors
Down down we feel it till the very crust
Of the world cracks and where there was no dust
Atoms of ruin rise. Confusion stirs
And fear
and all our thoughts--dark scavengers--
Feed on the center's refuse. Hope is thrust
Like wind away and love sinks into lust
For merest safety meanest of levelers.
And then we wake. Or do we? Sleep endures
More than the morning can when shadows lie
Sharper than mountains and the cleft is real
Between us and our kings. What sun assures
Our courage and what evening by and by
Descends to rest us and perhaps to heal?
From morn to eve they struggled--Life and Death.

At first it seemed to me that they in mirth
Contended and as foes of equal worth
So firm their feet so undisturbed their breath.
But when the sharp red sun cut through its sheath
Of western clouds I saw the brown arms' girth
Tighten and bear that radiant form to earth
And suddenly both fell upon the heath.
And then the wonder came--for when I fled
To where those great antagonists down fell
I could not find the body that I sought
And when and where it went I could not tell
One only form was left of those who fought
The long dark form of Death--and it was dead.

In vain to me the smiling mornings shine
And reddening Phoebus lifts his golden fire
The birds in vain their amorous descant join
Or cheerful fields resume their green attire:
These ears alas! for other notes repine
A different object do these eyes require
My lonely anguish melts no heart but mine
And in my breast the imperfect joys expire.
Yet morning smiles the busy race to cheer
And newborn pleasure brings to happier men
The fields to all their wonted tribute bear
To warm their little loves the birds complain
I fruitless mourn to him that cannot hear
And weep the more because I weep in vain.

While men pay reverence to mighty things
They must revere thee thou blue-cinctured isle
Of Englandnot to-day but this long while
In front of nations Mother of great kings
Soldiers and poets. Round thee the sea flings
His steel-bright arm and shields thee from the guile
And hurt of France. Secure with august smile
Thou sittest and the East its tribute brings.
Some say thy old-time power is on the wane
Thy moon of grandeur filled contracts at length
They see it darkening down from less to less.
Let but a hostile hand make threat again
And they shall see thee in thy ancient strength
Each iron sinew quivering lioness!

Fantastic Sleep is busy with my eyes:
I seem in some waste solitude to stand
Once ruled of Cheops: upon either hand
A dark illimitable desert lies
Sultry and stilla realm of mysteries
A wide-browed Sphinx half-buried in the sand
With orbless sockets stares across the land
The woefulest thing beneath these brooding skies
Where all is woeful weird-lit vacancy.
'Tis neither midnight twilight nor moonrise.
Lo! while I gaze beyond the vast sand sea
The nebulous clouds are downward slowly drawn
And one bleared star faint-glimmering like a bee
Is shut in the rosy outstretched hand of Dawn. 

Enamoured architect of airy rhyme
Build as thou wilt
heed not what each man says.
Good souls but innocent of dreamers' ways
Will come and marvel why thou wastest time
Others beholding how thy turrets climb
'Twixt theirs and heaven will hate thee all their days
But most beware of those who come to praise.
O Wondersmith O worker in sublime
And heaven-sent dreams let art be all in all
Build as thou wilt unspoiled by praise or blame
Build as thou wilt and as thy light is given
Then if at last the airy structure fall
Dissolve and vanishtake thyself no shame.
They fail and they alone who have not striven. 

Sick of myself and all that keeps the light
Of the blue skies away from me and mine
I climb this ledge and by this wind-swept pine
Lingering watch the coming of the night.
'Tis ever a new wonder to my sight.
Men look to God for some mysterious sign
For other stars than those that nightly shine
For some unnatural symbol of His might:
Would'st see a miracle as grand as those
The prophets wrought of old in Palestine?
Come watch with me the shaft of fire that glows
In yonder West
the fair frail palaces
The fading alps and archipelagoes
And great cloud-continents of sunset-seas. 

The increasing moonlight drifts across my bed
And on the churchyard by the road I know
It falls as white and noiselessly as snow.
'Twas such a night two weary summers fled
The stars as now were waning overhead.
Listen! Again the shrill-lipped bugles blow
Where the swift currents of the river flow
Past Fredericksburgfar off the heavens are red
With sudden conflagration: on yon height
Linstock in hand the gunners hold their breath:
A signal-rocket pierces the dense night
Flings its spent stars upon the town beneath:
Hark!the artillery massing on the right
Hark!the black squadrons wheeling down to Death!

Touched with the delicate green of early May
Or later when the rose unveils her face
The world hangs glittering in star-strown space
Fresh as a jewel found but yesterday.
And yet 'tis very old
what tongue may say
How old it is? Race follows upon race
Forgetting and forgotten
in their place
Sink tower and temple
nothing long may stay.
We build on tombs and live our day and die
From out our dust new towers and temples start
Our very name becomes a mystery.
What cities no man ever heard of lie
Under the glacier in the mountain's heart
In violet glooms beneath the moaning sea!

When I behold what pleasure is Pursuit
What life what glorious eagerness it is
Then mark how full Possession falls from this
How fairer seems the blossom than the fruit
I am perplexed and often stricken mute
Wondering which attained the higher bliss
The wingd insect or the chrysalis
It thrust aside with unreluctant foot.
Spirit of verse which still eludes my art
You shapes of loveliness that still do haunt me
O never never rest upon my heart
If when I have thee I shall little want thee!
Still flit away in moonlight rain and dew
Will-o'-the-wisp that I may still pursue!

Not in the fabled influence of some star
Benign or evil do our fortunes lie:
We are the arbiters of destiny
Lords of the life we either make or mar.
We are our own impediment and bar
To noble issues. With averted eye
We let the golden moment pass us by
Time's foolish spendthrifts searching wide and far
For what lies close at hand. To serve our turn
We ask fair wind and favorable tide.
From the dead Danish sculptor let us learn
To make Occasion not to be denied:
Against the sheer precipitous mountainside
Thorwaldsen carved his Lion at Lucerne. 

I leave behind me the elm-shadowed square
And carven portals of the silent street
And wander on with listless vagrant feet
Through seaward-leading alleys till the air
Smells of the sea and straightway then the care
Slips from my heart and life once more is sweet.
At the lane's ending lie the white-winged fleet.
O restless Fancy whither wouldst thou fare?
Here are brave pinions that shall take thee far

ships of red Ceylon
Slim-masted lovers of the blue Azores!
'Tis but an instant hence to Zanzibar
Or to the regions of the Midnight Sun:
Ionian isles are thine and all the fairy shores!


Because the sky is blue
because blithe May
Masks in the wren's note and the lilac's hue
Becausein fine because the sky is blue
I will read none but piteous tales to-day.
Keep happy laughter till the skies be gray
And the sad season cypress wears and rue
Then when the wind is moaning in the flue
And ways are dark bid Chaucer make us gay.
But now a little sadness! All too sweet
This springtide riot this most poignant air
This sensuous sphere of color and perfume!
So listen love while I the woes repeat
Of Hamlet and Ophelia and that pair
Whose bridal bed was builded in a tomb.

The smooth-worn coin and threadbare classic phrase
Of Grecian myths that did beguile my youth
Beguile me not as in the olden days:
I think more grief and beauty dwell with truth.
Andromeda in fetters by the sea
Star-pale with anguish till young Perseus came
Less moves me with her suffering than she
The slim girl figure fettered to dark shame
That nightly haunts the park there like a shade
Trailing her wretchedness from street to street.
See where she passesneither wife nor maid.
How all mere fiction crumbles at her feet!
Here is woe's self and not the mask of woe:
A legend's shadow shall not move you so!

I vex me not with brooding on the years
That were ere I drew breath: why should I then
Distrust the darkness that may fall again
When life is done? Perchance in other spheres
Dead planetsI once tasted mortal tears
And walked as now among a throng of men
Pondering things that lay beyond my ken
Questioning death and solacing my fears.
Oftimes indeed strange sense have I of this
Vague memories that hold me with a spell
Touches of unseen lips upon my brow
Breathing some incommunicable bliss!
In years foregone O Soul was all not well?
Still lovelier life awaits thee. Fear not thou!

Though I am native to this frozen zone
That half the twelvemonth torpid lies or dead
Though the cold azure arching overhead
And the Atlantic's never-ending moan
Are mine by heritage I must have known
Life otherwhere in epochs long since fled
For in my veins some Orient blood is red
And through my thought are lotus blossoms blown.
I do remember. . . it was just at dusk
Near a walled garden at the river's turn
(A thousand summers seem but yesterday!)
A Nubian girl more sweet than Khorja musk
Came to the water-tank to fill her urn
And with the urn she bore my heart away!
Three things there be that prosper up apace
And flourish whilst they grow asunder far
But on a day they meet all in one place
And when they meet they one another mar.
And they be these: the wood the weed the wag.
The wood is that which makes the gallow tree
The weed is that which strings the hangman's bag
The wag my pretty knave betokeneth thee.
Mark well dear boy whilst these assemble not
Green springs the tree hemp grows the wag is wild
But when they meet it makes the timber rot
It frets the halter and it chokes the child.
Then bless thee and beware and let us pray
We part not with thee at this meeting day.
How calmly drops the dew on tree and plant
While round each pendulous leaf the cool airs blow!
The neighbour city has no sign to show
Of all its grim machines that toil and pant
Except a sky that coal makes confidant:
But there the human rivers ebb and flow
And thither was I wonted once to go
With heart not ill at ease or recusant.
Here now I love to wander morn and eve
Till oaks and elms have grown oracular
Yet conscious that my soberest thoughts receive
A tinge of tumult from the smoke afar
And scarcely know to which I most belong--
The simple fields or that unsimple throng. 

My heart's Ideal that somewhere out of sight
Art beautiful and gracious and alone--
Haply where blue Saronic waves are blown
On shores that keep some touch of old delight--
How welcome thy memory and how bright
To one who watches over leagues of stone
These chilly northern waters creep and moan
From weary morning unto weary night.
O Shade-form lovelier than the living crowd
So kind to votaries yet thyself unvowed
So free to human fancies fancy-free
My vagrant thought goes out to thee to thee
As wandering lonelier than the Poet's cloud
I listen to the wash of this dull sea. 

The planted seed consigned to common earth
Disdains to moulder with the baser clay
But rises up to meet the light of day
Spreads all its leaves and flowers and tendrils forth
And bathed and ripened in the genial ray
Pours out its perfume on the wandering gales
Till in that fragrant breath its life exhales.
So this immortal germ within my breast
Would strive to pierce the dull dark clod of sense
With aspirations wingd and intense
Would so stretch upward in its tireless quest
To meet the Central Soul its source its rest
So in the fragrance of the immortal flower
High thoughts and noble deeds its life it would outpour.

The enthusiast brooding in his cell apart
O'er the sad image of the Crucified--
The drooping head closed lips and piercd side--
A holy vision fills his raptured heart
With heavenly power inspired his unskilled arm
Shapes the rude block to this transcendent form.
Oh Son of God! thus ever thus would I
Dwell on the loveliness enshrined in Thee
The lofty faith the sweet humility
The boundless love the love that could not die.
And as the sculptor with thy glory warm
Gave to this chiselled ivory thy fair form
So would my spirit in thy thought divine
Grow to a semblance fair as this of Thine. 

Securely cabined in the ship below
Through darkness and through storm I cross the sea
A pathless wilderness of waves to me:
But yet I do not fear because I know
That he who guides the good ship o'er that waste
Sees in the stars her shining pathway traced.
Blindfold I walk this life's bewildering maze
Up flinty steep through frozen mountain pass
Through thornset barren and through deep morass:
But strong in faith I tread the uneven ways
And bare my head unshrinking to the blast
Because my Father's arm is round me cast
And if the way seems rough I only clasp
The hand that leads me with a firmer grasp.

If the young mother clasp for the first time
The mortal child that earthly love has given
With a deep joy preluding that of heaven
Who shall describe thy ecstacy sublime
Oh Virgin mother! when upon thy ear
The message of the announcing angel fell
In heavenly tones to calm thy rising fear
And thy approaching glory to fortell.
Was ever mother so divinely blest
As when the glow of Heaven yet clinging round him
Before the weight of human grief had bound him
The gentle Christ-child to thy heart was prest?
Oh blessed among women! joy like thine
What hand shall dare describe! alas not mine.

Oh! in that better land to which I go
Say shall I know thee as I know thee here
And will thy presence dim that glorious sphere
As it hath darkened all the earth below?
Oh! will that voice enchain my listening ear
Whose "frozen music" stops my pulses now
And shall I meet in that fair land of bliss
Those calm cold eyes that chill me so in this?
Shall I bear hence e'en memory of thee?
Unheeded then will pass the Angel throngs
I shall not hear the Seraph's burning songs
And heaven itself will be all dark to me.
Oh give me rather that drear hopeless faith
That sees no morn beyond the night of death!

The honey-bee that wanders all day long
The field the woodland and the garden o'er
To gather in his fragrant winter store
Humming in calm content his quiet song
Seeks not alone the rose's glowing breast
The lily's dainty cup the violet's lips--
But from all rank and noxious weeds he sips
The single drop of sweetness closely press'd
Within the poison chalice. Thus if we
Seek only to draw forth the hidden sweet
In all the varied human flowers we meet
In the wide garden of humanity
And like the bee if home the spoil we bear
Hived in our hearts it turns to nectar there.

Oh thou who once on earth beneath the weight
Of our mortality didst live and move
The incarnation of profoundest love
Who on the Cross that love didst consummate
Whose deep and ample fullness could embrace
The poorest meanest of our fallen race:
How shall we e'er that boundless debt repay?
By long loud prayers in gorgeous temples said?
By rich oblations on thine altars laid?
Ah no! not thus thou didst appoint the way:
When thou wast bowed our human woe beneath
Then as a legacy thou didst bequeath
Earth's sorrowing children to our ministry--
And as we do to them we do to thee.

Go forth in life oh friend! not seeking love
A mendicant that with imploring eye
And outstretched hand asks of the passers by
The alms his strong necessities may move.
For such poor love to pity near allied
Thy generous spirit may not stoop and wait
A suppliant whose prayer may be denied
Like a spurned beggar's at a palace gate:
But thy heart's affluence lavish uncontrolled
The largess of thy love give full and free
As monarchs in their progress scatter gold
And be thy heart like the exhaustless sea
That must its wealth of cloud and dew bestow
Though tributary streams or ebb or flow.

As some dark stream within a cavern's breast
Flows murmuring moaning for the distant sun
So ere I met thee murmuring its unrest
Did my life's current coldly darkly run.
And as that stream beneath the sun's full gaze
Its separate course and life no more maintains
But now absorbed transfused far o'er the plains
It floats etherealized in those warm rays
So in the sunlight of thy fervid love
My heart so long to earth's dark channels given
Now soars all pain all doubt all ill above
And breathes the ether of the upper heaven:
So thy high spirit holds and governs mine
So is my life my being lost in thine! 

Ah no! my love knows no vain jealousy:
The rose that blooms and lives but in the sun
Asks not what other flowers he shines upon
If he but shine on her. Enough for me
Thus in thy light to dwell and thus to share
The sunshine of thy smile with all things fair.
I know thou'rt vowed to Beauty not to Love.
I would not stay thy footsteps from one shrine
Nor would I bind thee by a sigh to mine.
For me--I have no lingering wish to rove
For though I worship all things fair like thee
Of outward grace of soul-nobility
Happier than thou I find them all in one
And I would worship at thy shrine alone!

The mountain lake o'ershadowed by the hills
May still gaze heavenward on the evening star
Whose distant light its dark recesses fills
Though boundless distance must divide them far
Still may the lake the star's bright image bear
Still may the star from its blue ether dome
Shower down its silver beams across the gloom
And light the wave that wanders darkly there.
Star of my life! thus do I turn to thee
Amid the shadows that above me roll
Thus from thy distant sphere thou shinest on me
Thus does thine image float upon my soul
Through the wide space that must our lives dissever
Far as the lake and star ah me! forever.

Night closes round me and wild threatening forms
Clasp me with icy arms and chain me down
And bind upon my brow a cypress crown
Dewy with tears and heaven frowns dark with storms
But the one glorious memory of thee
Rises upon my path to guide and bless
The bright SHEKINAH of the wilderness
The Polar Star upon a trackless sea
The beaming Pharos of the unreached shore.
It spans the clouds that gather o'er my way
The rainbow of my life's tempestuous day.
Oh blessed thought! stay with me evermore
And shed thy lustrous beams where midnight glooms
As fragrant lamps burned in the ancient tombs. 

"Give me the bracelets that your warriors wear"
The Roman traitress to the Sabine cried
"Give me the toys and I will be your guide
And to your host the city's gates unbar."
Then to the walls each eager warrior rushed
And on the base Tarpeia as he passed
Each from his arm the massive circlet cast
Till her slight form beneath the weight was crushed.
Thus are our idle wishes. Thus we sigh
For some imagined good yet unattained
For wealth or fame or love and which once gained
May like a curse o'er all our future lie.
Thus in our blindness do we ask of fate
The gifts that once bestowed may crush us with their weight.

Oh bard! what though upon thy mortal eyes
There fell no glimmering ray of earthly light
And the deep shadow of eternal night
Shut from thy gaze our lovely earth and skies
Yet was it to thy spirit's vision given
To gaze upon the splendors of that shore
Eye had not seen nor heart conceived before.
Then didst thou Poet Laureate of heaven
Sing of those courts and of that angel host
Of that majestic Spirit who in vain
Dared warred and fell never to rise again
And of that Paradise so early lost
In strains "posterity shall not let die"
In "thoughts that wander through eternity." 

Thou brave old Titan that in chains didst lie
Bound to the rock on the Caucasian hill
Who by sublime endurance didst defy
Imperial Jove and all his shapes of ill
As I invoke thy spirit here to-day--
From the old Pagan world thou speak'st to me
I hear thy voice across Time's sounding sea
Bid me thus bear and conquer.--I obey.
Henceforth like thee I will endure and wait
On life's bleak summit bound without dismay.
Then in thine iron car roll on thy way
Thou stern relentless power that men call Fate
Loose then thy bolts thou dark and threat'ning sky--
Thou vulture at my heart feed to satiety!

Fate! seek me out some lake far off and lone
Shut in by hills of green and gradual rise
And beautified with blue inverted skies--
Where not a breeze but comes with softened tone.
And if the waves awake they only moan
With a low lulling music like the rills
That make their home among those happy hills
And let me find--left there by hands unknown--
A bark with mouldering sides and rifted sail
Just strong enough to bear me from the shore
But not to reach its tree-girt harbour more--
Oh happy happy rest! oh world of wail!
How calmly I would tempt the peaceful deep
And sink to death as if I sank to sleep.

Cover me with your everlasting arms--
Ye guardian giants of this solitude!--
From the ill-sight of men and from the rude
Tumultuous din of yon wild world's alarms!
Oh knit your mighty limbs around above
And close me in for ever! let me dwell
With the wood spirits in the darkest spell
That ever with your verdant locks ye wove.
The air is full of countless voices joined
In one eternal hymn
the whispering wind
The shuddering leaves the hidden water springs
The work-song of the bees whose honeyed wings
Hang in the golden tresses of the lime
Or buried lie in purple beds of thyme. 

There's not a fibre in my trembling frame
That does not vibrate when thy step draws near
There's not a pulse that throbs not when I hear
Thy voice thy breathing nay thy very name.
When thou art with me every sense seems dim
And all I am or know or feel is thee
My soul grows faint my veins run liquid flame
And my bewildered spirit seems to swim
In eddying whirls of passion dizzily.
When thou art gone there creeps into my heart
A cold and bitter consciousness of pain:
The light the warmth of life with thee depart
And I sit dreaming over and over again
Thy greeting clasp thy parting look and tone
And suddenly I wake--and am alone. 

Lady whom my belovd loves so well!
When on his clasping arm thy head reclineth
When on thy lips his ardent kisses dwell
And the bright flood of burning light that shineth
In his dark eyes is poured into thine
When thou shalt lie enfolded to his heart
In all the trusting helplessness of love
If in such joy sorrow can find a part
Oh give one sigh unto a doom like mine!
Which I would have thee pity but not prove.
One cold calm careless wintry look that fell
Haply by chance on one is all that he
Ever gave my love
round that my wild thoughts dwell
In one eternal pang of memory.

I ofttimes see her face here in the gloom
When--dreaming by my fire as dreamers dream--
I watch the flickering fire-lights till they seem
Like magic shuttles on a shadowy loom
To weave strange pictures in the dusky room.
For her face 'mid the others there I find
It thrills me with a sense all undefined--
Vague as the fragrance of an old perfume.
Her hair--the light that shimmers on the sea--
Her wistful mouth--a red bud not half blown--
Her tender eyes--a cloudless summer sky--
Flash on my sight a glimpse of rapture nigh
Then fade away and leave me here alone...
Her heart--but Love himself holds that in fee. 

I cannot measure for thee drop by drop
Thy draught of love my hands dear tremble so:
Behold the chalice how the bright drops glow
And still I pour although thou bid'st me stop
Till the rich wine mounts to the goblet's top
And the dry earth receives the overflow.
Too generous am I? Ah say not so!
Love that doth count its gifts is a weak prop
Whereon to stay a weary human heart.
Yes draw me closer love. Perchance I may
Clasped in thine arms forget the dreaded day
When thou my love my soul my life's best part
In cold satiety wild turn thee round
And dash the poor cup broken to the ground.

Hush--hush! it is the charm of nothingness--
A sweet estate wherein there is no sweet
A music true though no vibrations beat
A passive mistress cold and passionless--
Bestowing not yet having power to bless
Until in holy love we kiss her feet.
O joy wherein no soul a friend may greet
O Thou that giv'st no comfort in distress
Why do we love thee Silence? Art thou then
The mystic ghostly Mother of mankind
From forth whose womb we sprang without a throe?
To Thee resort for rest and peace all men
In Thy embrace serene pure joy they find--
Art Thou the very Heaven whereto we go?
If loving you life's golden knowledge came
It rooted late and slowly in my soul
For youth dislikes the greys of wise control
And seeks as one enthralled the fatal flame
Of lurid colours in precincts of shame.
Dear aged eyes that grieving could condole
Foreseeing wisdom as the decades roll
And manhood growing worthy of its name
Thus knowledge came slow dawning into truth
Enshrined your face and made me strong and wise.
O mother mine who mourned my wilful youth
Now to your grave I come with bitter sighs
Crying to you in penitence and ruth
"All women have grown sacred in mine eyes."
Reign on majestic Ville-Marie!
Spread wide thy ample robes of state
The heralds cry that thou art great
And proud are thy young sons of thee.
Mistress of half a continent
Thou risest from thy girlhood's rest
We see thee conscious heave thy breast
And feel thy rank and thy descent.
Spring of the saint and chevalier!
And with the Scarlet Tunic wed!
Mount Royal's crown upon thy head
And past thy footstool broad and clear
Saint Lawrence sweeping to the sea:
Reign on majestic Ville-Marie!
While soon the "garden's flaunting flowers" decay
And scattered on the earth neglected lie
The mountain-daisy cherished by the ray
A poet drew from heaven shall never die.
Ah! like that lonely flower the poet
Mid penury's bare soil and bitter gale
He felt each storm that on the mountain blows
Nor ever knew the shelter of the vale.
By genius in her native vigour nursed
On nature with impassioned look he gazed
Then through the cloud of adverse fortune burst
Indignant and in light unborrowed blazed.
Scotia! from rude affliction shield thy bard
His heaven-taught numbers fame herself will guard.
Leisure thou goddess of a bygone age
When hours were long and days sufficed to hold
Wide-eyed delights and pleasures uncontrolled
By shortening moments when no gaunt presage
Of undone duties modern heritage
Haunted our happy minds
must thou withhold
Thy presence from this over-busy world
And bearing silence with thee disengage
Our twined fortunes? Deeps of unhewn woods
Alone can cherish thee alone possess
Thy quiet teeming vigor. This our crime:
Not to have worshipped marred by alien moods
That sole condition of all loveliness
The dreaming lapse of slow unmeasured time. 

Swept clean and still across the polished floor
From some unshuttered casement hid from sight
The level sunshine slants its greater light
Quenching the little lamp which pallid poor
Flickering unreplenished at the door
Has striven against darkness the long night.
Dawn fills the room and penetrating bright
The silent sunbeams through the window pour.
And she lies sleeping ignorant of Fate
Enmeshed in listless dreams her soul not yet
Ripened to bear the purport of this day.
The morning breeze scarce stirs the coverlet
A shadow falls across the sunlight
wait!
A lark is singing as he flies away.

Goaded and harassed in the factory
That tears our life up into bits of days
Ticked off upon a clock which never stays
Shredding our portion of Eternity
We break away at last and steal the key
Which hides a world empty of hours
ways
Of space unroll and Heaven overlays
The leafy sun-lit earth of Fantasy.
Beyond the ilex shadow glares the sun
Scorching against the blue flame of the sky.
Brown lily-pads lie heavy and supine
Within a granite basin under one
The bronze-gold glimmer of a carp
and I
Reach out my hand and pluck a nectarine.

Cloud-topped and splendid dominating all
The little lesser hills which compass thee
Thou standest bright with April's buoyancy
Yet holding Winter in some shaded wall
Of stern steep rock
and startled by the call
Of Spring thy trees flush with expectancy
And cast a cloud of crimson silently
Above thy snowy crevices where fall
Pale shrivelled oak leaves while the snow beneath
Melts at their phantom touch. Another year
Is quick with import. Such each year has been.
Unmoved thou watchest all and all bequeath
Some jewel to thy diadem of power
Thou pledge of greater majesty unseen.

A little garden on a bleak hillside
Where deep the heavy dazzling mountain snow
Lies far into the spring. The sun's pale glow
Is scarcely able to melt patches wide
About the single rose bush. All denied
Of nature's tender ministries. But no --
For wonder-working faith has made it blow
With flowers many hued and starry-eyed.
Here sleeps the sun long idle summer hours
Here butterflies and bees fare far to rove
Amid the crumpled leaves of poppy flowers
Here four o'clocks to the passionate night above
Fling whiffs of perfume like pale incense showers.
A little garden loved with a great love! 

Thou yellow trumpeter of laggard Spring!
Thou herald of rich Summer's myriad flowers!
The climbing sun with new recovered powers
Does warm thee into being through the ring
Of rich brown earth he woos thee makes thee fling
Thy green shoots up inheriting the dowers
Of bending sky and sudden sweeping showers
Till ripe and blossoming thou art a thing
To make all nature glad thou art so gay
To fill the lonely with a joy untold
Nodding at every gust of wind to-day
To-morrow jewelled with raindrops. Always bold
To stand erect full in the dazzling play
Of April's sun for thou hast caught his gold.

Always we are following a light
Always the light recedes
with groping hands
We stretch toward this glory while the lands
We journey through are hidden from our sight
Dim and mysterious folded deep in night
We care not all our utmost need demands
Is but the light the light! So still it stands
Surely our own if we exert our might.
Fool! Never can'st thou grasp this fleeting gleam
Its glowing flame would die if it were caught
Its value is that it doth always seem
But just a little farther on. Distraught
But lighted ever onward we are brought
Upon our way unknowing in a dream. 

A face seen passing in a crowded street
A voice heard singing music large and free
And from that moment life is changed and we
Become of more heroic temper meet
To freely ask and give a man complete
Radiant because of faith we dare to be
What Nature meant us. Brave idolatry
Which can conceive a hero! No deceit
No knowledge taught by unrelenting years
Can quench this fierce untamable desire.
We know that what we long for once achieved
Will cease to satisfy. Be still our fears
If what we worship fail us still the fire
Burns on and it is much to have believed. 

Must all of worth be travailled for and those
Life's brightest stars rise from a troubled sea?
Must years go by in sad uncertainty
Leaving us doubting whose the conquering blows
Are we or Fate the victors? Time which shows
All inner meanings will reveal but we
Shall never know the upshot. Ours to be
Wasted with longing shattered in the throes
The agonies of splendid dreams which day
Dims from our vision but each night brings back
We strive to hold their grandeur and essay
To be the thing we dream. Sudden we lack
The flash of insight life grows drear and gray
And hour follows hour nerveless slack. 

Life! Austere arbiter of each man's fate
By whom he learns that Nature's steadfast laws
Are as decrees immutable
O pause
Your even forward march! Not yet too late
Teach me the needed lesson when to wait
Inactive as a ship when no wind draws
To stretch the loosened cordage. One implores
Thy clemency whose wilfulness innate
Has gone uncurbed and roughshod while the years
Have lengthened into decades
now distressed
He knows no rule by which to move or stay
And teased with restlessness and desperate fears
He dares not watch in silence thy wise way
Bringing about results none could have guessed. 

What instinct forces man to journey on
Urged by a longing blind but dominant!
Nothing he sees can hold him nothing daunt
His never failing eagerness. The sun
Setting in splendour every night has won
His vassalage
those towers flamboyant
Of airy cloudland palaces now haunt
His daylight wanderings. Forever done
With simple joys and quiet happiness
He guards the vision of the sunset sky
Though faint with weariness he must possess
Some fragment of the sunset's majesty
He spurns life's human friendships to profess
Life's loneliness of dreaming ecstasy. 

The wind is singing through the trees to-night
A deep-voiced song of rushing cadences
And crashing intervals. No summer breeze
Is this though hot July is at its height
Gone is her gentler music
with delight
She listens to this booming like the seas
These elemental loud necessities
Which call to her to answer their swift might.
Above the tossing trees shines down a star
Quietly bright
this wild tumultuous joy
Quickens nor dims its splendour. And my mind
O Star! is filled with your white light from far
So suffer me this one night to enjoy
The freedom of the onward sweeping wind.

The path runs straight between the flowering rows
A moonlit path hemmed in by beds of bloom
Where phlox and marigolds dispute for room
With tall red dahlias and the briar rose.
'T is reckless prodigality which throws
Into the night these wafts of rich perfume
Which sweep across the garden like a plume.
Over the trees a single bright star glows.
Dear garden of my childhood here my years
Have run away like little grains of sand
The moments of my life its hopes and fears
Have all found utterance here where now I stand
My eyes ache with the weight of unshed tears
You are my home do you not understand?

How is it that being gone you fill my days
And all the long nights are made glad by thee?
No loneliness is this nor misery
But great content that these should be the ways
Whereby the Fancy dreaming as she strays
Makes bright and present what she would would be.
And who shall say if the reality
Is not with dreams so pregnant. For delays
And hindrances may bar the wished-for end
A thousand misconceptions may prevent
Our souls from coming near enough to blend
Let me but think we have the same intent
That each one needs to call the other "friend!"
It may be vain illusion. I'm content.

I ask but one thing of you only one
That always you will be my dream of you
That never shall I wake to find untrue
All this I have believed and rested on
Forever vanished like a vision gone
Out into the night. Alas how few
There are who strike in us a chord we knew
Existed but so seldom heard its tone
We tremble at the half-forgotten sound.
The world is full of rude awakenings
And heaven-born castles shattered to the ground
Yet still our human longing vainly clings
To a belief in beauty through all wrongs.
O stay your hand and leave my heart its songs!

What torture lurks within a single thought
When grown too constant and however kind
However welcome still the weary mind
Aches with its presence. Dull remembrance taught
Remembers on unceasingly
unsought
The old delight is with us but to find
That all recurring joy is pain refined
Become a habit and we struggle caught.
You lie upon my heart as on a nest
Folded in peace for you can never know
How crushed I am with having you at rest
Heavy upon my life. I love you so
You bind my freedom from its rightful quest.
In mercy lift your drooping wings and go.

I do not care to talk to you although
Your speech evokes a thousand sympathies
And all my being's silent harmonies
Wake trembling into music. When you go
It is as if some sudden dreadful blow
Had severed all the strings with savage ease.
No do not talk
but let us rather seize
This intimate gift of silence which we know.
Others may guess your thoughts from what you say
As storms are guessed from clouds where darkness broods.
To me the very essence of the day
Reveals its inner purpose and its moods
As poplars feel the rain and then straightway
Reverse their leaves and shimmer through the woods.

My heart is tuned to sorrow and the strings
Vibrate most readily to minor chords
Searching and sad
my mind is stuffed with words
Which voice the passion and the ache of things:
Illusions beating with their baffled wings
Against the walls of circumstance and hoards
Of torn desires broken joys
records
Of all a bruised life's maimed imaginings.
Now you are come! You tremble like a star
Poised where behind earth's rim the sun has set.
Your voice has sung across my heart but numb
And mute I have no tones to answer. Far
Within I kneel before you speechless yet
And life ablaze with beauty I am dumb.

How empty seems the town now you are gone!
A wilderness of sad streets where gaunt walls
Hide nothing to desire
sunshine falls
Eery distorted as it long had shone
On white dead faces tombed in halls of stone.
The whir of motors stricken through with calls
Of playing boys floats up at intervals
But all these noises blur to one long moan.
What quest is worth pursuing? And how strange
That other men still go accustomed ways!
I hate their interest in the things they do.
A spectre-horde repeating without change
An old routine. Alone I know the days
Are still-born and the world stopped lacking you. 

All night I wrestled with a memory
Which knocked insurgent at the gates of thought.
The crumbled wreck of years behind has wrought
Its disillusion
now I only cry
For peace for power to forget the lie
Which hope too long has whispered. So I sought
The sleep which would not come and night was fraught
With old emotions weeping silently.
I heard your voice again and knew the things
Which you had promised proved an empty vaunt.
I felt your clinging hands while night's broad wings
Cherished our love in darkness. From the lawn
A sudden quivering birdnote like a taunt.
My arms held nothing but the empty dawn. 

I learnt to write to you in happier days
And every letter was a piece I chipped
From off my heart a fragment newly clipped
From the mosaic of life
its blues and grays
Its throbbing reds I gave to earn your praise.
To make a pavement for your feet I stripped
My soul for you to walk upon and slipped
Beneath your steps to soften all your ways.
But now my letters are like blossoms pale
We strew upon a grave with hopeless tears.
I ask no recompense I shall not fail
Although you do not heed
the long sad years
Still pass and still I scatter flowers frail
And whisper words of love which no one hears. 

Throughout the echoing chambers of my brain
I hear your words in mournful cadence toll
Like some slow passing-bell which warns the soul
Of sundering darkness. Unrelenting fain
To batter down resistance fall again
Stroke after stroke insistent diastole
The bitter blows of truth until the whole
Is hammered into fact made strangely plain.
Where shall I look for comfort? Not to you.
Our worlds are drawn apart our spirit's suns
Divided and the light of mine burnt dim.
Now in the haunted twilight I must do
Your will. I grasp the cup which over-runs
And with my trembling lips I touch the rim. 

Forever the impenetrable wall
Of self confines my poor rebellious soul
I never see the towering white clouds roll
Before a sturdy wind save through the small
Barred window of my jail. I live a thrall
With all my outer life a clipped square hole
Rectangular
a fraction of a scroll
Unwound and winding like a worsted ball.
My thoughts are grown uneager and depressed
Through being always mine my fancy's wings
Are moulted and the feathers blown away.
I weary for desires never guessed
For alien passions strange imaginings
To be some other person for a day. 

White glittering sunlight fills the market square
Spotted and sprigged with shadows. Double rows
Of bartering booths spread out their tempting shows
Of globed and golden fruit the morning air
Smells sweet with ripeness on the pavement there
A wicker basket gapes and overflows
Spilling out cool blue plums. The market glows
And flaunts and clatters in its busy care.
A stately minster at the northern side
Lifts its twin spires to the distant sky
Pinnacled carved and buttressed
through the wide
Arched doorway peals an organ suddenly --
Crashing triumphant in its pregnant tide
Quenching the square in vibrant harmony. 

He died of "Stranger's Fever" when his youth
Had scarcely melted into manhood so
The chiselled legend runs
a brother's woe
Laid bare for epitaph. The savage ruth
Of a sunny bright but alien land uncouth
With cruel caressing dealt a mortal blow
And by this summer sea where flowers grow
In tropic splendor witness to the truth
Of ineradicable race he lies.
The law of duty urged that he should roam
Should sail from fog and chilly airs to skies
Clear with deceitful welcome. He had come
With proud resolve but still his lonely eyes
Ached with fatigue at never seeing home. 

Poor foolish monarch vacillating vain
Decaying victim of a race of kings
Swift Destiny shook out her purple wings
And caught him in their shadow
not again
Could furtive plotting smear another stain
Across his tarnished honour. Smoulderings
Of sacrificial fires burst their rings
And blotted out in smoke his lost domain.
Bereft of courtiers only with his queen
From empty palace down to empty quay.
No challenge screamed from hostile carabine.
A single vessel waited shadowy
All night she ploughed her solitary way
Beneath the stars and through a tranquil sea

Great master! Boyish sympathetic man!
Whose orbed and ripened genius lightly hung
From life's slim twisted tendril and there swung
In crimson-sphered completeness
guardian
Of crystal portals through whose openings fan
The spiced winds which blew when earth was young
Scattering wreaths of stars as Jove once flung
A golden shower from heights cerulean.
Crumbled before thy majesty we bow.
Forget thy empurpled state thy panoply
Of greatness and be merciful and near
A youth who trudged the highroad we tread now
Singing the miles behind him
so may we

Faint throbbings of thy music overhear.
How still the room is! But a while ago
The sound of sobbing voices vexed my ears
And on my face there fell a rain of tears--
I scarce knew why or whence but now I know.
For this sweet speaking silence this surcease
Of the dumb desperate struggle after breath
This painless consciousness of perfect peace
Which fills the place of anguish--it is Death!
What folly to have feared it! Not the best
Of all we knew of life can equal this
Blending in one the sense of utter rest
The vivid certainty of boundless bliss!
O Death the loveliness that is in thee
Could the world know the world would cease to be.

Whither oh! whither wilt thou wing thy way?
What solemn region first upon thy sight
Shall break unveiled for terror or delight?
What hosts magificent in dread array
My spirit! when thy prison-house of clay
After long strife is rent? Fond fruitless quest!
The unfledged bird within his narrow nest
Sees but a few green branches oer him play
And through their parting leaves by fits revealed
A glimpse of summer sky
nor knows the field
Wherein his dormant powers must yet be tried.
Thou art that bird!--of what beyond thee lies
Far in the untracked immeasurable skies
Knowing but this--that thou shalt find thy guide! 

How many blessed groups this hour are bending
Through England's primrose meadow-paths their way
Towards spire and tower 'midst shadowy elms ascending
Whence the sweet chimes proclaim the hallowed day!
The halls from old heroic ages gray
Pour their fair children forth
and hamlets low
With those thick orchard-blooms the soft winds play
Send out their inmates in a happy flow
Like a freed vernal stream. I may not tread
With them those pathways to the feverish bed
Of sickness bound
yet O my God! I bless
Thy mercy that with Sabbath peace hath filled
My chastened heart and all its throbbings stilled
To one deep calm of lowliest thankfulness. 

They float before my soul the fair designs
Which I would body forth to life and power
Like clouds that with their wavering hues and lines
Portray majestic building--dome and tower
Bright spire that through the rainbow and the shower
Points to the unchanging stars
and high arcade
Far-sweeping to some glorious altar made
For holiest rites.
Meanwhile the waning hour
Melts from me and by fervent dreams overwrought
I sink. O friend! O linked with each high thought!
Aid me of those rich visions to detain
All I may grasp
until thou seest fulfilled
While time and strength allow my hope to build
For lowly hearts devout but one enduring fane! 

Judged by my goddess' doom to endless pain
Lo here I ope my sorrow's passion
That every silly eye may view most plain
A sentence given on no occasion.
If that by chance they fall (most fortunate)
Within those cruel hands that did enact it
Say but Alas he was too passionate
My doom is passed nor can be now unactit.
So mayst thou see I was a spotless lover
And grieve withal that e'er thou dealt so sore
Unto remorse who goes about to move her
Pursues the wingd winds and tills the shore.
Lovely is her semblance hard is her heart
Wavering is her mind sure is her dart. 

Relent my dear yet unkind Coelia
At length relent and give my sorrows end.
So shall I keep my long-wished holiday
And set a trophy on a froward friend.
Nor tributes nor imposts nor other duties
Demand I will as lawful conqueror
Duties tributes imposts unto thy beauties
Myself will pay as yielded servitor.
Then quick relent thyself surrender us.
Brave sir and why (quoth she) must I relent?
Relent (cried I) thyself doth conquer us.
When eftsoons with my proper instrument
She cut me off ay me and answerd
You cannot conquer and be conquerd.

It shall be said I died for Coelia
Then quick thou grisly man of Erebus
Transport me hence unto Proserpina
To be adjudged as--wilful amorous
To be hung up within the liquid air
For all the sighs which I in vain have wasted
To be through Lethe's waters cleansd fair
For those dark clouds which have my looks o'ercasted
To be condemned to everlasting fire
Because at Cupid's fire I wilful brent me
And to be clad for deadly dumps in mire.
Among so many plagues which shall torment me
One solace I shall find when I am over--
It will be known I died a constant lover.
And will the spirit falter and its fire
Burn low and slow and die when we grow old?
The brain be silent and the heart be cold
And love be old and cold and all desire
Be quenched that now higher and higher
Immortal fire through dungeon keep and hold
Turret and spire of this proud life is rolled--
Shall this grow cold and cold and then expire?
Oh let the dream live on the mortal die--
The vision thrive the costly form decay--
The beauty old and cold all pass away
The spirit higher and higher in fire uprolled
Wrap tower and spire and battlement on high
And earth and sky so that it ne'er grow old! 

Whence are these motions of the human soul?
Itself outside itself wanders and soars
Alighting now from old Diluvian shores
Or where the many-moond planets roll
Or the fixed stars gaze round the icy pole--
A moment on the threshold of itself
To stand then hide an unsubstantial elf
Or eyeless burrow downward like a mole.
But all the while as a still sentinel
Upon a lonely hill it marks the track
Itself hath made and hath the potent spell
Its absent self at will to summon back:--
So several it is and yet so one
Such diverse moods that move in unison! 

Love doth not stir my heart
sweet love is dead
Its cheek is pale its lovely eyelids closed
No not a quiver shakes the lowly bed
Where the dear ashen image lies reposed.
I can go nigh and lift the mournful veil
I can look down and touch the chiselled lips--
Remember that they were not always pale
But red--ah rosy-red--with smiles and quips.
I can do this then pass with but a tear
That tear soon taught to decorate a smile
Mayhap adorn a verse to please an ear
That love's sweet music yet will help beguile.
Ah God! so dead to Love and yet not dead!
Would I were with her on her lowly bed!

High summer Noon! Yon crow of all his kind
Stands indefatigably impudent--
A vigilant scout upon a battlement
Of his vast fortress. Underneath him wind
The water-courses--open unconfined
To his down-peering eye. Improvident
The bare fields lie in swart abandonment
The hills their tresses thoughtlessly unbind
Of fluent silver carelessly displayed
And all the pastures in their morn attire
Of flowery robes most gorgeously arrayed
Shrink now too late beore the noonday's fire.
Thus unthrift Earth her dainty bosom bares
And on her nakedness heaven's bold eye stares.

Beside her I could be a thousand years
And talk with her and muse and think I caught
Her very spirit and yet catch it not
So subtle is it: Two translucent spheres
Should flash it forth
it flames then disappears.
A mouth all music should translate it well
It flows like music--whither none can tell
It wraps all senses round soothes charms and cheers.
And when we feel peer listen would confine
And grasp its very self it slips away
Like the elusive beauty of a day
In autumn leaving of its track no sign.
And yet the search we every day renew
Pleased to be foiled yet foiled still to pursue.

Where lies the land to which thy soul would go?--
Beyond the wearied wold the songless dell
The purple grape and golden asphodel
Beyond the zone where streams baptismal flow.
Where lies the land of which thy soul would know?--
There where the unvexed senses darkling dwell
Where never haunting hurrying footfall fell
Where toil is not nor builded hope laid low.
Rest! Rest! to thy hushed realm how one by one
Old Earth's tired ages steal away and weep
Forgotten or unknown long duty done!
Ah God when death in seeming peace shall steep
Life's loud turmoil and Time his race hath run
Shall heart of man at length find rest and sleep?

Vocal yet voiceless lingering lambent white
With the wide wings of evening on the fell
The tranquil vale the enchanted citadel--
Another day swoons to another night.
Speak low: from bare Blencathra's purple height
The sound o' the ghyll falls furled
and loath to go
A continent of cloud its plaited snow
Wears far away athwart a lake of light.
Is it the craft of hell that while we lie
Enshaded lulled beneath heaven's breezeless sky
The garrulous clangours and assoild shows
Of London's burrowing mazes haunt us yet?
City forgive me: mother of joys and woes
Thy shadow is here and lo our eyes are wet.

See where the pilgrim bound for Mecca's shrine
Yon weary steps and way-worn robes proclaim
Is not his pilgrimage akin to mine?
Is not our errand somewhat of the same?
For not even Mecca's venerated name
Nor yet Medina where the prophet lies
Receives the homage nor can boast the fame
Of those dim tombs that now before me rise.
Alas! proud city--and is this the sight
That first attracts the distant stranger's gaze?
Nor fort nor palace tells the Moslem's might
Alone the giant tombs of other days
Obscure and shadowy in the early light
As clouds on the horizon he surveys. The Saracen
And where is he who like a raging flame
"The Koran or the sword!" his battlecry
From Mecca's shores with conquering Amru came?
In his own city here of victory
One only bears a heavier yoke than he
What can that faith do for him in his need?
It teaches him to bear adversity
With patience that may shame a better creed.
See what he is! To know what he has been
Go! view the tombs--ye shall not see them long--
Where the old Caliphs sleep--or climb his strong
Old fortress on the rock and view the scene
Spread at your feet and ye may picture then
The ancient glory of the Saracen. Heliopolis
Art's infant home and learning's earliest school
The world's great college mystic wisdom's shrine
Seat of the king-priest's more than regal rule
Fair city of the sun! and what of thine
Remains to tell how glorious how divine
Thy temples rose? one solitary stone
Surviving a memorial and a sign
Still points to him for whom thy temples shone:
Pause here! it is holy ground whereon we stand--
The Virgin with her Offspring when she fled
From Herod's fury laid her weary head
Beneath yon reverend tree--with gentle hand
Ah! touch these frail traditions--for they shed
A ray round many a spot that else were drear and dread.

Yes! yon stern lines do but embody one
One stern unchanging omnipresent thought
That dwelt a deadly incubus upon
The builder's soul and in his nature wrought:
With giant efforts all his life he sought
To fling the fearful burden from his mind
And left at last in visible shape behind
Its type this load the heaviest ever brought
By man upon the weary earth to press
In this stupendous form is tangibly
That thought portrayed! Eternity--no less!
Eternity mistaken! Never ye
Who do not faith surpassing faith possess
No--never look into eternity! 

Thou maid of gentle light thy straw-wove vest
And russet cincture
thy loose pale-tinged hair
Thy melancholy voice and languid air
As if shut up within that pensive breast
Some never-to-be-divulged grief was pressed
Thy looks resigned that smiles of patience wear
While winter's blasts thy scattered tresses tear
Thee autumn with divinest charms have blessed!
Let blooming spring with gaudy hopes delight
That dazzling summer shall of her be born
Let summer blaze
and winter's stormy train
Breathe awful music in the ear of night--
Thee will I court sweet dying maid forlorn
And from thy glance will catch the inspired strain.

New to the world when all was fairy ground
And shapes romantic swam before my sight
Thy beauty caught my soul and tints as bright
And fair as fancy's dreams in thee I found:
In cold experience when my hopes were drowned
And life's dark clouds over-veiled in mists of night
The forms that wont to fill me with delight
Thy view again dispelled the darkness round.
Shall I forget thee when the pallid cheek
The sighing voice wan look and plaintive air
No more the roseate hue of health bespeak?
Shall I neglect thee as no longer fair?
No lovely maid! If in my heart I seek
Thy beauty deeply is engraven there. 

When first upon my childish eyelids broke
The morning sun over that rude flinted tower
Bosomed in antique trees
when first awoke
On each delighted sense the vernal flower
And birds began touched by the young spring to pour
Their tremulous harmony
when first the croak
Of that old rookery and the woodman's stroke
Speeded with purest joy mine infant hour.
O dear departed spirits of holy men
By intellectual efforts purified
Hovered ye round your earthly haunts again
To thirst of fame like yours my soul to guide?
It is thus perchance that from life's earliest dawn
Forwards by fairy lights my steps are drawn 

The breath of heaven that over yonder trees
Passing from thence a local tincture drew
Here first upon my new-born body blew!
Oh was there magic in the trembling breeze
That could with such delicious softness seize
Each melting sense
and wake to music new
And bear upon its wings a shadowy crew
That only fancy's gifted vision sees?
Still round the sacred mansion do ye dwell
Ye lovely fairy tribes or are ye fled?
O once again renew the entrancing spell
And over each raptured vein your pinions spread!
Bliss above earth were mine could I once more
Those dear delusions of the soul restore!

In eddying course when leaves began to fly
And Autumn in her lap the store to strew
As 'mid wild scenes I chanced the Muse to woo
Through glens untrod and woods that frowned on high
Two sleeping nymphs with wonder mute I spy!--
And lo she's gone!--in robe of dark green hue
'Twas Echo from her sister Silence flew
For quick the hunter's horn resounded to the sky!
In shade affrighted Silence melts away.
Not so her sister!--hark for onward still
With far-heard step she takes her lingering way
bounding from rock to rock and hill to hill!
Ah mark the merry maid in mockful play
With thousand mimic tones the laughing forest fill!

A nymph is dead mild virtuous young and fair
Death never counts by days or months or years:
Oft in his sight the infant old appears
And to his earthly mansion must repair.
Why should our sighs disturb the quiet air?
For when the flood of Time to ruin bears
No beauty can prevail nor parents' tears.
When life is gone we of the flesh despair
Yet still the happy soul immortal lives
In Heaven as we with pious hope conceive
And to the Maker endless praises gives
That she so soon this loathsome world might leave.
We judge that glorious spirit doubly blest
Which from short life ascends to eternal rest. 

I have wept tears and learnt I fear sad ways
Of searching for a smile and I can guess
The secret of a wan mouth's droopingness
And know which eyes are they that waste their gaze
On the hid grave of hop--yet ne'er the less
My heart leaps up to utter thanks and bless
Our earth which bears sweet flowers and the glad face
Of these unwearied waters--thanks to them
For brief intense bright moments when we see
Our life stand clear in joy we kiss the hem
Of God's robe in a rapture and are whole--
On wind-swept hill-tops by the mystery
Of ocean on still morns or when the soul
Springs to the lark in a fine ecstasy. 

When thou would'st have me go with thee O Death
Over the utmost verge to the dim place
Practise upon me with no amorous grace
Of fawning lips and words of delicate breath
And curious music thy lute uttereth
Nor think for me there must be sought-out ways
Of cloud and terror
have we many days
Sojourned together and is this thy faith?
Nay be there plainness 'twixt us
come to me
Even as thou art O brother of my soul
Hold thy hand out and I will place mine there
I trust thy mouth's inscrutable irony
And dare to lay my forehead where the whole
Shadow lies deep of thy purpureal hair.

If any sense in mortal dust remains
When mine has been refined from flower to flower
Won from the sun all colours drunk the shower
And delicate winy dews and gained the gains
Which elves who sleep in airy bells a-swing
Through half a summer day for love bestow
Then in some warm old garden let me grow
To such a perfect lush ambrosian thing
As this. Upon a southward-facing wall
I bask and feel my juices dimly fed
And mellowing while my bloom comes golden grey:
Keep the wasps from me! but before I fall
Pluck me white fingers and o'er two ripe-red
Girl lips O let me richly swoon away! 

The altar-lights burn low the incense-fume
Sickens: O listen how the priestly prayer
Runs as a fenland stream
a dim despair
Hails through their chaunt of praise who here inhume
A clay-cold Faith within its carven tomb.
But come thou forth into the vital air
Keen dark and pure! grave Night is no betrayer
And if perchance some faint cold star illume
Her brow of mystery shall we walk forlorn?
An altar of the natural rock may rise
Somewhere for men who seek
there may be borne
On the night-wind authentic prophecies:
If not let this--to breathe sane breath--suffice
Till in yon East mayhap the dark be worn. Durer's 

The bow of promise this last flaring star
Terror and hope are in mid-heaven
but She
The mighty-wing'd crown'd Lady Melancholy
Heeds not. O to what vision'd goal afar
Does her thought bear those steadfast eyes which are
A torch in darkness? There nor shore nor sea
Nor ebbing Time vexes Eternity
Where that lone thought outsoars the mortal bar.
Tools of the brain--the globe the cube--no more
She deals with
in her hand the compass stays
Nor those industrious genius of her lore
Student and scribe thou gravest of the fays
Expect this secret to enlarge thy store
She moves through incommunicable ways. 

Make thyself known Sibyl or let despair
Of knowing thee be absolute
I wait
Hour-long and waste a soul. What word of fate
Hides 'twixt the lips which smile and still forbear?
Secret perfection! Mystery too fair!
Tangle the sense no more lest I should hate
Thy delicate tyranny the inviolate
Poise of thy folded hands thy fallen hair.
Nay nay--I wrong thee with rough words
still be
Serene victorious inaccessible
Still smile but speak not
lightest irony
Lurk ever 'neath thine eyelids' shadow
still
O'ertop our knowledge
Sphinx of Italy
Allure us and reject us at thy will!

High instincts dim perversions sacred fears
--Whence issuing? Are they but the brain's amassed
Tradition shapings of a barbarous past
Remoulded ever by the younger years
Mixed with fresh clay and kneaded with new tears?
No more? The dead chief's ghost a shadow cast
Across the roving clan and thence at last
Comes God who in the soul His law uprears?
Is this the whole? Has not the Future powers
To match the Past--attractions pulsings tides
And voices for purged ears? Is all our light
The glow of ancient sunsets and lost hours?
Advance no banners up heaven's eastern sides?
Trembles the margin with no portent bright? 

The grass around my limbs is deep and sweet
Yonder the house has lost its shadow wholly
The blinds are dropped and softly now and slowly
The day flows in and floats
a calm retreat
Of tempered light where fair things fair things meet
White busts and marble Dian make it holy
Within a niche hangs Durer's Melancholy
Brooding
and should you enter there will greet
Your sense with vague allurement effluence faint
Of one magnolia bloom
fair fingers draw
From the piano Chopin's heart-complaint
Alone white-robed she sits
a fierce macaw
On the verandah proud of plume and paint
Screams insolent despot showing beak and claw. 

Light ebbs from off the Earth
the fields are strange
Dark trackless tenantless
now the mute sky
Resigns itself to Night and Memory
And no wind will yon sunken clouds derange
No glory enrapture them
from cot or grange
The rare voice ceases
one long-breathed sigh
And steeped in summer sleep the world must lie
All things are acquiescing in the change.
Hush! while the vaulted hollow of the night
Deepens what voice is this the sea sends forth
Disconsolate iterance a passionless moan?
Ah! now the Day is gone and tyrannous Light
And the calm presence of fruit-bearing Earth:
Cry Sea! it is thy hour
thou art alone. 

With brain o'erworn with heart a summer clod
With eye so practised in each form around--
And all forms mean--to glance above the ground
Irks it each day of many days we plod
Tongue-tied and deaf along life's common road
But suddenly we know not how a sound
Of living streams an odour a flower crowned
With dew a lark upspringing from the sod
And we awake. O joy of deep amaze!
Beneath the everlasting hills we stand
We hear the voices of the morning seas
And earnest prophesyings in the land
While from the open heaven leans forth at gaze
The encompassing great cloud of witnesses.

A lonely way and as I went my eyes
Could not unfasten from the Spring's sweet things
Lush-sprouted grass and all that climbs and clings
In loose deep hedges where the primrose lies
In her own fairness buried blooms surprise
The plunderer bee and stop his murmurings
And the glad flutter of a finch's wings
Outstartle small blue-speckled butterflies.

Blissfully did one speedwell plot beguile
My whole heart long
I loved each separate flower
Kneeling. I looked up suddenly--Dear God!
There stretched the shining plain for many a mile
The mountains rose with what invincible power!
And how the sky was fathomless and broad!
There's silent grandeur in the boundless waste
Of Ocean's bosom when the winds are still
And quiet beauty like the moonbeam traced
In lengthened shadows on some snow-clad hill
There's fiercer grandeur in the chainless sea
When the storm-spirit wakes it from its rest
And the high waves are dashing wild and free
As the white foam they bear upon their breast.

The thunder's voice is louder on the sea
The lightning flashes with a wilder glare
And landsmen know not of the dangers he
Whose home is on the Ocean's wave must dare
Yet it is pictured in its mighty roar
And in the wrecks which strew the rock-bound shore.
Almighty gold! whose magic charms dispense
Worth to the worthless to the graceless grace
To cowards valour and to blockheads sense
And to the withered maid a Hebe's face
Poor love exiled thou sitst on Hymen's throne
Thou rulest the court the senate and the bar
And though the church thy deity disown
Some whisper thou hast priest and altar there.

All human charities all laws divine
Deluded mortals offer at thy shrine
O thou supreme like fate to kill or save!
To thy vast empire what is wanting more?
"Nought" sighs Avaro "had it but the power
To silence conscience and to bribe the grave."
I will not rail or grieve when torpid eld
Frosts the slow-journeying blood for I shall see
The lovelier leaves hang yellow on the tree
The nimbler brooks in icy fetters held.
Methinks the aged eye that first beheld
Pale Autumn in her waning pageantry
Then knew himself dear Nature child of thee
Marking the common doom that all compelled.
No kindred we to thy belovd brods
If dying these we drew a selfish breath
But one path travel all their multitudes
And none dispute the solemn voice that saith:
"Sun to thy setting
to your autumn woods
Stream to thy sea
and man unto thy death!" 

This little light is not a little sign
Of duteous service innocent of blame
Contented with obscurity till came
Mandate that as a star her beam should shine.
On sickness did she wait or scribe or shrine
The law of her beneficence the same
Somewhat to sunder from her fragile frame
Something of her own being to resign.
So wasted now that let the lustre be
Resummoned but once more the fuel dies
Yet virtues six dorn her brevity
Singly too seldom met of mortal eyes
Discretion faithfulness frugality
Purity vigilance self-sacrifice. 

I saw the youthful singers of my day
To sound of lutes and lyres in morning hours
Trampling with eager feet the teeming flowers
Bound for Fame's temple upon Music's way:
A happy band a folk of holiday:
But some lay down and slept among the bowers
Some turned aside to fanes of alien Powers
Some Death took by the hand and led away.
Now gathering twilight clouds the land with grey
Yet where last light is lit last pilgrims go
Outlined in gliding shade by dying glow
And fain with weary fortitude essay
The last ascent. The end is hid but they
Who follow on my step shall surely know. 

Poet whose unscarr'd feet have trodden Hell
By what grim path and dread environing
Of fire couldst thou that dauntless footstep bring
And plant it firm amid the dolorous cell
Of darkness where perpetually dwell
The spirits cursed beyond imagining?
Or else is thine a visionary wing
And all thy terror but a tale to tell?
Neither and both thou seeker! I have been
No wilder path than thou thyself dost go
Close mask'd in an impenetrable screen
Which having rent I gaze around and know
What tragic wastes of gloom before unseen
Curtain the soul that strives and sins below.
WHAT sudden bird will bring us any cheer
Whose song in the chill dawn gives hope of Spring
Can we be glad to give it welcoming
Though April in its music be so near?
Not while the burden of our memories bear
The weight of silence that we know will cling
About the lips that nevermore will sing
The heart of him with visions voiced so clear.
There is a pause in meeting before speech
Between men who have fed their souls with song
The strangeness of an echo beyond reach
Cleaves silence deep for speech to pass along.
There are no words to tell the loss but each
Of our hearts feels the sorrow deep and strong.

The Wondersmith in vocables is dead!
The Builder of the palaces of rhyme
Shall build no more his music out of Time.
In the deep breathless peace to which he fled
He sits with Landor's hands upon his head
Watching our suns and stars that sink and climb
Between him and our tears' continuous chime --
Sorrowing for his presence vanishd.
Aldrich is dead! but the glory of his life
Is in his song and this will keep his name
Safe above change and the assaults of strife.
Poet whose artistry his constant aim
Kept true above defections that were rife
Death taking him still leaves his deathless fame.

BENEATH the bare-boughed Cambridge elms to-day
Time takes no flight in his unwintered heart
Where fourscore years and three came to depart
The vision shines that cannot burn away.
In perils of change his voice is still our stay
Who kept the true direction from the start.
He knew no deed born from his thoughts apart --
And held his pen Truth's summons to obey.
O reverend head take this our crown of praise
On this thy Birthday hallowed by our love
A soldier's honor and a poet's bays
In public heed thy virtues held to prove --
Though long we wish thee longer length of days
To lead us up the heights where we would move. 

HE heard the four winds and the seven seas
And voices inland under alien stars
And drove ambition like auroral cars
Striking the hill-tops when the darkness flees.
Vain in his dreams but brave in his vanities
No carpet-knight yet versed in parlor wars
And half a rogue when honesty debars
The desire to take the prize his fancy sees.
And yet he knew the silences of speech --
The leaf-heard utterance of April rains
The echoes in the twilight out of reach
Beyond the dim horizon where it wanes.
And like the distant sea-wash on the beach
He sang a few sad tender lyric strains.

Let me be blessd for the peace I make.
God grant that old Shakespearean praise may glow
Columbia on thy brows most royal so
Girt with a crown no mortal chances break.
The eagle that from ruined Rome we take
Hath but a pagan heart. His kingdoms go
That the dove's kingdom still may come and flow
O'er all the world. Ere the New Century wake
Make straight her paths her sweet Triumphal Way
For not by might and power earth's sorrows cease
Nor shall the stars in our young banner dim
While in its stripes is set the sign of Him
Who won by sufferance an eternal sway
The King of Glory and the Prince of Peace.

Honor and pity for the smitten field
The valorous ranks mown down like precious corn
Whose want must famish love morn after morn
Till Death the good physician shall have healed
The craving and the tearspent eyelids sealed.
Proud be the homes that for each cannon-torn
Encrimsoned rampart have been left forlorn
Holy the knells o'er fallen patriots pealed.
But they above the battle throng a space
Of starry silences and silver rest.
Commingled ghosts they press like brothers through
White dove-winged portals where one Father's face
Atones their passion as the ethereal blue
Serenes the fiery glows of east and west. 

Who would trust England let him lift his eyes
To Nelson columned o'er Trafalgar Square
Her hieroglyph of duty written where
The roar of traffic hushes to the skies
Or mark while Paul's vast shadow softly lies
On Gordon's statued sleep how praise and prayer
Flush through the frank young faces clustering there
To con that kindred rune of sacrifice.
O England no bland cloud-ship in the blue
But rough oak plunging on o'er perilous jars
Of reef and ice our faith will follow you
The more for tempest roar that strains your spars
And splits your canvas be your helm but true
Your courses shapen by the eternal stars.

The nightmare melts at last and London wakes
To her old habit of victorious ease.
More men and more and more for over-seas
More guns until the giant hammer breaks
That patriot folk whom even God forsakes.
Shall not Great England work her will on these
The foolish little nations and appease
An angry shame that in her memory aches?
But far beyond the fierce-contested flood
The cannon-planted pass the shell-torn town
The last wild carnival of fire and blood
Beware beware that dim and awful Shade
Armored with Milton's sword and Cromwell's frown
Affronted Freedom of her own betrayed. 

A lonely burial-ground is on Cape Cod.
Claiming the privilege of age each stone
Leans as it will its scarred front overflown
With winged cherubic head. By grace of God
Fulfilled in nature's gentle period
All ghastly blazonry of skull and bone
Muffled in moss and lichen-overgrown
Hath made its peace with beauty. Seldom trod
These grasses are where ghosts of old regret
Once-tended vines run wild but should a guest
Stoop there this weathered epitaph to trace
'Twill whisper him of all the human race.
Here lies beneath a heartsease coverlet
"Patience wife of Experience" at rest. 

An idle tree whose timber builds no ships
Whose wilding growth is all unfit to trace
Trim parallels in park and market-place
Yet precious for the fragrant dew that drips
From blowing sprays to comfort fevered lips
For lilt of hidden birds for changeful grace
Of leafy shade that sunbeams interlace
For heaven's dear blue about the spiring tips.
The world's great highway takes no heed of it
Though paths wind thither through the April green.
The earth's blind forces feel no need of it
Yet was there shaped before the shaping hours
A subtle league and sympathy between
This rhythmic tree and all effectual powers.

Who called himself your priest Immortal Choir?
Not Dante though in ruddiest altar-flame
He plunged his torch and bore it through the shame
Of deepening hell to domes of starry fire
In steadfast temple-service. Not that sire
Of glorious chant our Milton he who came
With solemn tread and vestments purged from blame
To swing the censer of divine desire.
But Horace sipping at your crystal spring
As lightly as he quaffed his Sabine wine
Caught up that lute about whose golden string
The rose and myrtle he was deft to twine
And sweetly sang in pauses of the feast:
"The poet is the gods' anointed priest." 

Hearing the autumnal wind I muse on thee
O Shelley bird of most aerial note
Whose songs came pulsing from a kindred throat
As passionate impetuous and free
As sudden-shrill with visionary glee
And hoarse with human agonies which smote
Thy gentlest heart till it would fain devote
Its music unto man's captivity
Singing the day when wrath and pride and fear
With the spectral troop of their unholy kind
Shall melt in love as shadows disappear
Before the sun
to evil unresigned
Urging the nobler discontent I hear
In all these restless voices of the wind. 

The summer comes again by vale and hill
With blossoms fashioning her fragrant way
But thou the child of summer to the day
Art long unknown and all thy steps are still.
In summer thou wert born and didst fulfill
Thy scanty urn of years while summer spray
Whitened the shores where thy mute image lay
Robbed of its poet. Hence the summers will
Seek thee in vain. The eye that watched the cloud
Hath locked its sight beneath the fallen lid
The ear that heard the skylark's note is vowed
To a perpetual quiet. Thou art hid
Beyond the summers and thy name belongs
But to a ceaseless melody of songs. 

We labor and are heavy-laden. Where
Shall we find rest unto our souls? We bleed
On thorn and flint and rove in pilgrim weed
From shrine to shrine but comfort is not there.
What went we out into thy desert bare
O Human Life to see? Thy greenest reed
Is Love unmighty for our utmost need
And shaken with the wind of our despair.
A voice from heaven like dew on Hermon falleth
That voice whose passion paled the olive leaf
In thy dusk aisles Gethsemane thou blest
Of gardens. 'Tis the Man of Sorrows calleth
The Man of Sorrows and acquaint with grief:
"Come unto Me and I will give you rest." 

We count them happy who have richly known
The sweets of life the sunshine on the hills
The mosses in the valley love that fills
The heart with tears as fragrant as thine own
O tender moonlight lily over-blown
When the inevitable season wills
By gentle winds beside thy native rills--
We count them happy yet not these alone.
There is a Crown of Thorns Way of the Cross
Consuming Fire that burns the spirit pure.
By luster of the gold set free from dross
By light of heaven seen best through earth's obscure
By the exceeding gain that waits on loss--
Behold we count them happy who endure.

Thou knowest Thou Who art the soul of all
Selfless endeavor how I longed to make
This deed of mine adventured for love's sake
Thy deed--sweet grapes upon a sunny wall
A rose whose petals into fragrance fall
A glint of heaven glassed in some lonely lake
Amidst the heather and the fringing brake
Our secret--ah Thou knowest. Though it call
Only for pardon still to Thee I bring
My poor shamed deed that craved the Beautiful
--To Thee the Master-Artist Who alone
Wilt of Thy grace see in this graceless thing
The pattern marred by the imperfect tool
And know that dim wronged pattern for Thine Own.

Come hither taunted bird and I will stroke
Thy ruffled plumage with a verse O triste
And sombre minstrel at our Twelfth Night feast
A music masquerading in thy croak.
How often when the wild March mornings broke
Have I descried thee like a demon priest
Heaping hoarse curses on the riotous East
From the bare branches of some tossing oak!
Yet ever welcome is thy wizard flight
--Most welcome now when Earth lies imaging
The sleep of death beneath a winding-sheet
Of frozen snow intolerably white
A pallid waste crossed by the sudden fleet
Beautiful shadow of thy sable wing.

A naked tree against the sunset sky
A tall black tree whose leaves of emerald sheen
That blissful birds were wont to peep between
Long since have fallen. Through her summit high
The winter winds have swept with bitter cry
And left her desolate a crownless queen
Yet beautiful for amber lights serene
That all the ebon outlines glorify.
The Light! The Light! 'Mid her abandoned bare
Stript branches like a tracery of jet
Streams heavenly splendor. Fairer to behold
Than all those summer graces they forget
Her boughs are as a shadow on the air
A foil a fretwork in the flood of gold. 

Arise come forth into the night! Arise
Belovd for her dusky lips will teach
A nobler tale than any mortal speech
And the pure lights of her eternal eyes
Beyond all anger sorrow and surprise
Look with the same large loveliness on each
Not human-fashion scorning who beseech
To cherish those who scorn. The gleaming skies
Are royal with old goddesses and queens
Whose faces lit the earth till banished thence
They watch from heaven the fair familiar scenes
That nevermore shall do them reverence
Though humbled Cassiopaea earthward leans
And Cynthia sheds her old beneficence. 

When it befortunes us who love so dearly
To hurt each other let us haste to wring
This joy from our remorseful passioning--
The wound is witness that we love sincerely.
So slight a weapon word or silence merely
Would scarce effect surprisal of a sting
Were't not my word thy silence for we cling
One soul together. Life allots austerely
Unto the rose of love the thorny power
To tear the heart but ah love's anodyne!
The prick but proves the presence of the flower
Our one white rose from gardens all divine.
Then only then could grief outlast her hour
Were I ungrieved by least rebuff of thine.

The shadow of Death's wing had fallen grey
Upon her face the mother-face our star
Of home since life first read its calendar
Within our smiles
we felt her slip away
Our vain hold clinging to an empty clay
Down that hushed valley where the white mists are
On to its utmost verge so far so far
That her return was but as spirits may
Briefly revisit earth. For oh she shone
Transfigured yet so winsome that our awe
Was blended with her own beatitude.
The burden of her fourscore years was gone
Escaped from Time she mocked his mighty law
Her children looked upon her maidenhood.

Eager and shy as when among her peers
A girl will pour her confidence she told
In voice where laughter ran a thread of gold
A history all novel to our ears.
Her blissful eyes oblivious of tears
With lingering touch she one by one unrolled
Her bridal memories from fold on fold
Of fragrant silence. Dead thse fifty years
Was he with whom young hand in hand she went
To their first home which simple neighbor-folk
Had filled with garden-bloom and forest scent
Yet still of him and that June path they fared
Those welcoming flowers her failing accents spoke
--Of how Love led her to a place prepared. 

When the bruised heart bewildered first and numb
Quickened to pain how passing strange it seemed
To miss her comfort! She who still esteemed
Old lore above the schools would she not come
With potency of hoarded balsamum
To heal the hurt? Thus craving her I dreamed.
Before me sundering east from west there gleamed
A marble wall illimitable dumb
A blank of white! when lo her own sweet face
With no more halo than the crispy lace
I knew so well from sudden casement smiled
--Her blithe audacious self infringing so
With stolen peep Death's new punctiliom
Breaking his code to reassure her child. 

Our Wellesley knew thee but a few swift years
A maiden spirit fresh as morning skies
Pale beauty of the face and frank young eyes
With privacies of tenderness and tears.
Half shy half proud amid thy clustering peers
Thou borest thee in queenly lily wise
Yet swaying toward them in a sweet surprise
Of love and faith--prophetic atmospheres.
For summer shone and goldenly thine heart
Bloomed into bliss but now--oh strange new ache
That makes itself familiar--now thou art
A broken lily all untimely dimmed
A broken lily for whose vanished sake
Our speech is faint our eyes are overbrimmed.

There is a life outwearing even grief.
Our shining lily of the sunbeams fain
Smit by a sudden vehemence of rain
Is dashed to earth with ruined cup and leaf
But Death her troubler holds his mortal fief
Of Love the overlord whose meads retain
A perfume sweeter for the bruise and stain
Abiding fragrance of a blossom brief.
Transplanted be it so to gardens bright
Where drooping lilies sprent with honey-dew
By angel touches wax more dazzling white
Than eye conceives beneath this baffling blue
At least remains to us of shadowed sight
Thy folding effluence of fair and true. 

God pity all whose hearts are anguish-torn
For loss of her but softest mercies flow
On these her little ones who cannot know
What cause their baby voices have to mourn.
In vain their fitful cries pursue her borne
From rooms belovd yet content to go
Sealed in that ivory trance from joy and woe
Her bridal raiment now serenely worn.
Too young for memory too young to miss
Her cherishments and yet it may not be
As they had never felt the mother-kiss
Nor reached their wandering hands to catch her smile
But haply dreamland keeps some charmd isle
Where love shall brood them safe from storm and sea.

Only a year but how art thou exalted
In that remoteness of unanswering death!
Not words could utter what thy silence saith
For oft in fellowship thy words we faulted
Pointing how here and there the logic halted
But now that God hath hushed the laboring breath
Thy silence all thy words interpreteth
Serene majestic silence o'er us vaulted
As the blue arch of sky. Only a year
And thou who wast familiar art become
A name of awe. What ranked as commonplace
Mere daily running of the daily race
Is waxen to heroic. Life is dumb
And waits on Death to make her meanings clear.

White lies the winter on the weary land
Winter of many a loss and many a grief
Yet must this burial day be counted chief
Of sorrows and most sore to understand
For God hath laid the lightning of His hand
On His own signal tower for all too brief
A date outsoaring mists of unbelief
To drink the living blue a beacon grand.
But whilst the desolate throng without the portal
Of solemn Trinity in silence waits
As listening for the beat of passing wing
To view that clay which harbored an immortal
Down the bleak air a tender breath of spring
Steals like a waft from Heaven's glad-opening gates.

Within the beauteous walls again too strait
For the wistful flocks who mourn their shepherd gone--
Since here all creeds one shining garment don
One seamless robe--our heavy spirits wait
On the old Hebraic anthem passionate
And fall of hallowed words that bear upon
Their cadences strange consolation won
From centuries of faith reverberate.
But oh the empty pulpit eloquent
Of death the sable pulpit over all!
Yet even here is soul with flesh at strife
For wise and tender was the hand that lent
A glowing wreath to that funereal pall--
Against the gloom the exultant flush of life.

"For all the saints who from their labors rest"--
White gleam the lilies on the lifted bier
As reverently the youthful bearers rear
Their sad belovd burden pacing west
Whilst all that host as from a single breast
One voice of praise outringing sweet and clear
Peals the triumphal chant he loved to hear:
"Thy name O Jesu be forever blest."
Ah turn and watch the pageantry of woe
Out through the darkened door. The glory-hymn
Wavers a space but swells again for lo!
The dismal pomp of death the mourners slow
The shrouded casket on the vision dim
That gleam of Easter lilies dazzles so.

The train wends outward where new thousands wait
Beneath an ampler temple-arch of sky
To speed with murmurous prayer and paean high
The royal progress of that sombre state
On through the streets to sorrow consecrate
On where thy sons hushed Harvard gather nigh
To glean a blessing from the passing by
And so to Auburn's unrestoring gate.
Is this thy victory Death? Not thine not thine
Howe'er to grief we grant her natural throes.
He prophesied of life
we asked a sign
So little mortals know for what they pray
And by his open grave amid the snows
A chastened city keeps her Easter day.

From dim aerial depths a silver light
Stole forth and formed and soared against the sky
A domelike summit gloriously bright
The adoration of the gazing eye
Mont Blanc. O beautiful beyond all dream
That thou for our great longing shouldst put by
Thy curtains woven soft with mist and gleam
In such a splendor! Queen of Air are those
Lustres miraculously white supreme
In sparkling radiance on the blue repose
Of heaven thy diamond-crusted veils thy frore
Virginal vesture of eternal snows?
We have beheld the vision. Evermore
Must our poor life be nobler than before.

"Here will I build a temple I the Lord
Ramses the Great crowned with the Double Crown
Son of the Sun whose chariot wheels swept down
The hosts of Kadesh and whose thirsty sword
Hath revelled in this Ethiopian horde
Smiting their necks. To teach them my renown
Pyloned and obelisked in many a town
I build a shrine wherein to be adored.
Take me this mountain of the living rock
Hew it and hollow
carve its river-face
As mountain never yet was carved to bear
My likenesses repeated like a prayer
Then probe it to its inmost secret place
And sculpture godhood from the savage block."

The temple-cliff against the soft deep blue
Of Nubia's star-sown sky stands ashen-grey
Save where like sifted snow or frosted spray
The moonlight blanches it. Supreme in view
Sit throned the four colossi emblems true
Of thine illimitable pride thou clay
Dust of the desert Ramses strewn to-day
In shattered images thine Egypt through.
Yet the stupendous Four are meek to Him
Graved at the hewn rock's heart eternal dim
A God with Gods. With that dread Trinity
Burning Harmachis and the death-white Ptah
And Lord of Thrones the high-plumed Ammon-Ra
The Pharaoh mates his mock divinity.

The dawn-light steals across the solemn Nile
Warms the huge knees and stony silent lips
Of those ranged giants through the portal slips
And up the great Osiris columns while
Chamber on chamber brightens aisle on aisle.
The walls wax wonderful with mystic ships
And pageantry of war. Blue lotus dips
In sacrifice and sudden faces smile.
Yet poignant penetrant the level beam
Strikes down those dusky courts to that last gloom
Of Zenith Splendor and the Sun in Tomb
Of Night with Ramses their beloved one
And fires their altar with a fleeting gleam. 

The treasure of the valley red and tall
They rise those sandstone fragments overgrown
With fern and ivy and sweet blossom sown
By pitying winds. From broken arch and wall
The harebell glistens
nightshade thickets pall
Bruised effigy and sunken altar-stone.
What man rejected Nature makes her own
Her comfort creeps where cross and pillar fall.
Still sacred though in lieu of white procession
Of chanting monks the mossy shafts look down
On children's blithe-voiced play
though robins nest
In sculptured angel-wing and carven crown
Perchance more sacred for the heart's confession
Lies bare to Him the heart's eternal Quest.

These are the hills our poet Langland trod
"Weary forwandered" from the sunrise flush
To amber evening thrilled by merle and thrush
Long Will whose sombre soul went pilgrim-shod
Seeking Saint Truth. Men called him churl and clod
He heard them not rapt in his dream's deep hush
Hardly he heard the merry waters gush
Still wandering with no company but God.
These hills are holy ground because of thee
O earthborn who wouldst make no peace with earth
Craving that visionary clime where all
Thy troubled field of folk at last shall be
One brotherhood in labor and in mirth
And not a blessing undivided fall. 

They chime they chime the sweet cathedral bells
Cleaving my cloudy thought if murkiest cloud
E'er hung so heavy as on spirit bowed
This drear confusion weighs. Where is it dwells
My truth of soul? What veil of shifting spells
Duties unduteous glamours disallowed
Myself doth from myself forever shroud?
Once more that silver-throated peal outwells.
Amid the chanting throng I kneel alone
Mute dull of heart yet fain to screen the brow.
Interpret me to Heaven deep organ tone! 
Clamor of rooks from pinnacle and spire
Hails an encrimsoned east but chill and gray
Below the pillared vistas arch away
Through shadowy nave to glory-smitten choir
Where Orient sunbeams thrill with jeweled fire
The dreaming glass that blossoms unto day
In roseate plumes and golden halo-ray
And seraph faces rapt with God-desire.

Ah yet these walls though hoary with the woe
And shrift of centuries are all too strait
For such a splendor. From the elm-roofed lawn
Where thostles chant and streams responsive flow
I'll worship Him on Whom my longings wait
Before the great east window of the dawn.
He sits. Upon the kingly head doth rest
The round-balled wimple and the heavy rings
Touch on the shoulders where the swallow clings
The downward garment shows the ambiguous breast
The Face--that Face one scarce can look on lest
One learn the secret of unspeakable things
But the dread gaze descends with shudderings
To the veiled couched knees the hands and thumbs close-pressed.

O lidded downcast eyes that bear the weight
Of all our woes and terrible wrong's increase
Proud nostrils lips proud-perfecter than these
With what a soul within you do you wait--
Disdain and pity love late-born of hate
Passion eternal patience pride and peace
Slow fades the sunlight from each lonely hill
And the pale half-moon paints with shadowy hue
The sleeping earth how soon doth night renew
Watch o'er a world--so passionless so still!
So free from all the turbulent thoughts that fill
And thrill the human soul deep hid from view!
Oh! would that we poor tird mortals too
Might seek and find repose. Ah! Not until
We learn through life to know and understand
The million chords--struck by some unseen hand
On the responsive yearning soul of man--
Strange and conflicting since the world began
Then all of beauty truth and love will find
Abiding echo in our heart and mind.

A tremor shook the inmost heart of night
And starting up one cried: "The day has come!"
But others cursed him bidding him be dumb--
"The Sun is dead: there will be no more light."
Again the darkness trembled and again
And now there crept into the eastern sky
A hesitant greyness and a voiceless sigh
Passed wakefully across the sleeping plain.
Then slowly very slowly one by one
Leaves stirred and branches quivered till at last
Expectant while the pulse of dawn beat fast
All nature waited breathless for the Sun.
The Sun-god drew his bow: ray after ray
His arrows swept the heavens and lo! 'twas day! Here
Peace rest content! Ah God! to tired hearts
To feet that falter at the long road's end
To weary players that have played their parts
In the great drama these in fulness send.

But unto us whose veins are quick with fire
Whose wants are wide as earth and high as heaven
Who spend our souls in some supreme desire
Be no content but large impatience given.
Oh! while the arm has strength to weight a blow
Let there be fighting Lord and deeds to dare
Such deeds as ask the bravest and the best.
Mass thick the foes against us make us know
The sting of pain the threatening of despair
And so compell us to our loftiest. Hereafter
Let those sore wounded with the spears of life
Crave for oblivion those who gasp for breath
In the hot whirl of this perplexing strife
Pray God to cease from striving after death!
To each his heaven: but what have we to do
With rest from labour we whose dearest thought
Is still to match our model with the true
Whose joy in life is in achievement wrought?
God if Thy pity lean towards man's hope
And Thou wouldst see Thy creatures each content
Give us no resting but a larger scope
To strive and battle with impediment.
Give strength to fill our loftiest desire
That we may triumph where we now aspire. 

Thou child of faith--whose little store of days
Was beautiful with prayer whom Reverence
Made humble and white-handed Innocence
Led purely thro' the dust of earthly ways--
God spared thy soul the terror and amaze
Of that fierce wrestling with Omnipotence
Which Jacob knew at Peniel the suspense
Of aching doubt and error's long delays.
Thy spirit questioned not but saw fulfilled
The uttermost of love when Calvary
Beheld the consummation of all years.
Ah childlike trust! so fair to us who build
The altar of our faith by dark degree
And join the stones together with our tears.
Our bark is on the waters! wide around
The wandering wave
above the lonely sky:
Hush! a young sea-bird floats and that quick cry
Shrieks to the levelled weapon's echoing sound:
Grasp its lank wing and on with reckless bound!
Yet creature of the surf a sheltering breast
To-night shall haunt in vain thy far-off nest
A call unanswered search the rocky ground.
Lord of Leviathan! when Ocean heard
Thy gathering voice and sought his native breeze
When whales first plunged with life and the proud deep
Felt unborn tempests heave in troubled sleep
Thou didst provide even for this nameless bird
Home and a natural love amid the surging seas.

Now Memory false spendthrift Memory
Disloyal treasure-keeper of the soul
This vision change shall never wring from thee
Nor wasteful years effacing as they roll.
O steel-blue lake high cradled in the hills!
O sad waves filled with little sobs and cries!
White glistening shingle hiss of mountain rills
And granite-hearted walls blotting the skies
Shine sob gleam gloom for ever! Oh in me
Be what you are in Nature--a recess--
To sadness dedicate and mystery
Withdrawn afar in the soul's wilderness.
Still let my thoughts leaving the worldly roar
Like pilgrims wander on thy haunted shore.
Why should I sing in verse why should I frame
These sad neglected notes for her dear sake?
Why should I offer up unto her name
The sweetest sacrifice my youth can make?
Why should I strive to make her live forever
That never deigns to give me joy to live?
Why should m'afflicted muse so much endeavor
Such honor unto cruelty to give?
If her defects have purchased her this fame
What should her virtues do her smiles her love?
If this her worst how should her best inflame?
What passions would her milder favors move?
Favors I think would sense quite overcome
And that makes happy lovers ever dumb.

But love whilst that thou mayst be loved again
Now whilst thy May hath filled thy lap with flowers
Now whilst thy beauty bears without a stain
Now use the summer smiles ere winter lours.
And whilst thou spread'st unto the rising sun
The fairest flower that ever saw the light
Now joy thy time before thy sweet be done
And Delia think thy morning must have night
And that thy brightness sets at length to west
When thou wilt close up that which now thou show'st
And think the same becomes thy fading best
Which then shall most inveil and shadow most.
Men do not weigh the stalk for that it was
When once they find her flower her glory pass. 

When winter snows upon thy sable hairs
And frost of age hath nipped thy beauties near
When dark shall seem thy day that never clears
And all lies withered that was held so dear
Then take this picture which I here present thee
Limned with a pencil not all unworthy
Here see the gifts that God and nature lent thee
Here read thyself and what I suffered for thee.
This may remain thy lasting monument
Which happily posterity may cherish
These colors with thy fading are not spent
These may remain when thou and I shall perish.
If they remain then thou shalt live thereby
They will remain and so thou canst not die.
Thou canst not die whilst any zeal abound
In feeling hearts that can conceive these lines
Though thou a Laura hast no Petrarch found
In base attire yet clearly beauty shines.
And I though born within a colder clime
Do feel mine inward heat as great (I know it)
He never had more faith although more rhyme
I love as well though he could better show it.
But I may add one feather to thy fame
To help her flight throughout the fairest isle
And if my pen could more enlarge thy name
Then shouldst thou live in an immortal style.
For though that Laura better limned be
Suffice thou shalt be loved as well as she. 
Most fair and lovely maid look from the shore
See thy Leander striving in these waves
Poor soul quite spent whose force can do no more
Now send forth hope for now calm pity saves
And waft him to thee with these lovely eyes
A happy convoy to a holy land.
Now show thy power and where thy virtue lies
To save thine own stretch out the fairest hand.
Stretch out the fairest hand a pledge of peace
That hand that darts so right and never misses
I shall forget old wrongs my griefs shall cease
And that which gave me wounds I'll give it kisses
Once let the ocean of my cares find shore
That thou be pleased and I may sigh no more.
Beauty sweet love is like the morning dew
Whose short refresh upon the tender green
Cheers for a time but till the sun doth shew
And straight 'tis gone as it had never been.
Soon doth it fade that makes the fairest flourish
Short is the glory of the blushing rose
The hue which thou so carefully dost nourish
Yet which at length thou must be forced to lose
When thou surcharged with the burthen of thy years
Shalt bend thy wrinkles homeward to the earth
And that in beauty's lease expired appears
The date of age the kalends of our death.
But ah! no more this must not be foretold
For women grieve to think they must be old. 
None other fame mine unambitious muse
Affected ever but t' eternize thee
All other honors do my hopes refuse
Which meaner prized and momentary be.
For God forbid I should my papers blot
With mercenary lines with servile pen
Praising virtues in them that have them not
Basely attending on the hopes of men.
No no my verse respects nor Thames nor theaters
Nor seeks it to be known unto the great
But Avon poor in fame and poor in waters
Shall have my song where Delia hath her seat.
Avon shall be my Thames and she my song
No other prouder brooks shall hear my wrong.
Lo here the impost of a faith entire
Which love doth pay and her disdain extorts
Behold the message of a chaste desire
Which tells the world how much my grief imports.
These tributary passions beauty's due
I send those eyes the cabinets of love
That cruelty herself might grieve to view
Th' affliction her unkind disdain doth move
And how I live cast down from off all mirth
Pensive alone only but with despair
My joys abortive perish in their birth
My griefs long lived and care succeeding care.
This is my state and Delia's heart is such
I say no more I fear I said too much.
If this be love to draw a weary breath
To paint on floods till the shore cry to th'air
With downward looks still reading on the earth
The sad memorials of my love's despair
If this be love to war against my soul
Lie down to wail rise up to sigh and grieve
The never-resting stone of care to roll
Still to complain my griefs whilst none relieve
If this be love to clothe me with dark thoughts
Haunting untrodden paths to wail apart
My pleasures horror music tragic notes
Tears in mine eyes and sorrow at my heart.
If this be love to live a living death
Then do I love and draw this weary breath.

For twenty years did Nature wait without
Besetting that storm-beaten tenement
Claiming her debt. From door to door she went
Rude battering with all her hostile rout
And we who helpless watching stood about
While frail walls tottered and light bolts were bent
Thinking each day to see some fatal rent
Did marvel much that house should be so stout.
But Love was there the Lord of Life and Death
And held the importunate enemy at bay
Yet when his work was done all peacefully
As dawn grows day Life yielded up his breath
And led by Love Immortal went away
Surrendering to a vanquished enemy.

Yon silvery billows breaking on the beach
Fall back in foam beneath the star-shine clear
The while my rhymes are murmuring in your ear
A restless lore like that the billows teach
For on these sonnet-waves my soul would reach
From its own depths and rest within you dear
As through the billowy voices yearning here
Great nature strives to find a human speech.
A sonnet is a wave of melody:
From heaving waters of the impassion'd soul
A billow of tidal music one and whole
Flows in the "octave
" then returning free
Its ebbing surges in the "sestet" roll
Back to the deeps of Life's tumultuous sea. 

I see thee pine like her in golden story
Who in her prison woke and saw one day
The gates thrown open--saw the sunbeams play
With only a web 'tween her and summer's glory
Who when that web--so frail so transitory
It broke before her breath--had fallen away
Saw other webs and others rise for aye
Which kept her prison'd till her hair was hoary.
Those songs half-sung that yet were all-divine--
That woke Romance the queen to reign afresh--
Had been but preludes from that lyre of thine
Could thy rare spirit's wings have pierced the mesh
Spun by the wizard who compels the flesh
But lets the poet see how heav'n can shine. 

The mirrored stars lit all the bulrush spears
And all the flags and broad-leaved lily-isles
The ripples shook the stars to golden smiles
Then smoothed them back to happy golden spheres.
We rowed--we sang
her voice seemed in mine ears
An angel's yet with woman's dearest wiles
But shadows fell from gathering cloudy piles
And ripples shook the stars to fiery tears.
God shaped the shadows like a phantom boat
Where sate her soul and mine in Doom's attire
Along the lily-isles I saw it float
Where ripples shook the stars to symbols dire
We wept--we kissed while starry fingers wrote
And ripples shook the stars to a snake of fire.
Into the crystal chalice of the soul
Is falling drop by drop Life's blending mead.

The pleasant waters of our childhood speed
And enter first
and Love pours in its whole
Deep flood of tenderness and gall. There roll
The drops of sweet and bitter that proceed
From wedded trustfulness and hearts that bleed
For children that outrun us to the goal
And later come the calmer joys of age--
The restful streams of quietude that flow
Around their fading lives whose heritage
Is whitened locks and voice serene and low.
These added blessings round the vessel up--
Death is the overflowing of the cup.

If they were shadows walking to and fro
Upon a screen you call reality
Then when the light fails where do shadows go?
This boy enigma rapes philosophy.
But if they really occupied three-square
And now are only shadows on a screen
How can the light still cast a shadow there
From shades of shadows that have never been?
Such questions are a mimic pantomime
Of ghosts to utter nothings in dream chairs
Myopia squinting in a mist of time
An eye that sees the eye with which it stares.

Your light too clearly shows the ancient stigma
Of questions solved by posing an enigma.
Man's no mere scribe who in the cloistered gloom
Of some old convent sits away his life
Who at his trencher finds his only strife--
The rest fat peace--as in his narrow room
He writes till blinded by Time's darkening rheum.
An image rather find in one who leaving wife
And child and friends proclaims war to the knife
With luxury and seeks his unknown doom
Among the mountains where the ages lie
Buried 'neath miles of monumental stone--
Region of distance height immensity--
Writes with his heart's blood in those spaces lone
His last sad message. There where eagles cry
They find his bones: far still the highest cone!

The darkness brings no quiet here the light
No waking: ever on my blinded brain
The flare of lights the rush and cry and strain
The engine's scream the hiss and thunder smite:
I see the hurrying crowds the clasp the flight
Faces that touch eyes that are dim with pain:
I see the hoarse wheels turn and the great train
Move labouring out into the boundless night.
So many souls within its dim recesses
So many bright so many mournful eyes:
Mine eyes that watch grow fixed with dreams and guesses
What threads of life what hidden histories
What sweet or passionate dreams and dark distresses
What unknown thoughts what various agonies!

Oh city whom gray stormy hands have sown
With restless drift scarce broken now of any
Out of the dark thy windows dim and many
Gleam red across the storm. Sound is there none
Save evermore the fierce wind's sweep and moan
From whose gray hands the keen white snow is shaken
In desperate gusts that fitfully lull and waken
Dense as night's darkness round thy towers of stone.
Darkling and strange art thou thus vexed and chidden
More dark and strange thy veild agony
City of storm in whose gray heart are hidden
What stormier woes what lives that groan and beat
Stern and thin-cheeked against time's heavier sleet
Rude fates hard hearts and prisoning poverty. 

Not to be conquered by these headlong days
But to stand free: to keep the mind at brood
On life's deep meaning nature's altitude
Of loveliness and time's mysterious ways
At every thought and deed to clear the haze
Out of our eyes considering only this
What man what life what love what beauty is
This is to live and win the final praise.
Though strifes ill fortune and harsh human need
Beat down the soul at moments blind and dumb
With agony
yet patience--there shall come
Many great voices from life's outer sea
Hours of strange triumph and when few men heed
Murmurs and glimpses of eternity.

This is the maiden Solitude too fair
For mortal eyes to gaze on--she who dwells
In the lone valley where the water wells
Clear from the marble where the mountain air
Is resinous with pines and white peaks bare
Their unpolluted bosoms to the stars
And holy Reverence the passage bars
To meaner souls who seek to enter there
Only the worshipper at Nature's shrine
May find that maiden waiting to be won
With broad calm brow and meek eyes of the dove
May drink the rarer ether all divine
And earthly toils and earthly troubles done
May win the longed-for sweetness of her love.

When you shall see me in the toils of Time
My lauded beauties carried off from me
My eyes no longer stars as in their prime
My name forgot of Maiden Fair and Free
When in your being heart concedes to mind
And judgment though you scarce its process know
Recalls the excellencies I once enshrined
And you are irked that they have withered so
Remembering mine the loss is not the blame
That Sportsman Time but rears his brood to kill
Knowing me in my soul the very same
One who would die to spare you touch of ill!
Will you not grant to old affection's claim
The hand of friendship down Life's sunless hill?

Perhaps long hence when I have passed away
Some other's feature accent thought like mine
Will carry you back to what I used to say
And bring some memory of your love's decline.
Then you may pause awhile and think "Poor jade!"
And yield a sigh to me--as ample due
Not as the tittle of a debt unpaid
To one who could resign her all to you
And thus reflecting you will never see
That your thin thought in two small words conveyed
Was no such fleeting phantom-thought to me
But the Whole Life wherein my part was played
And you amid its fitful masquerade
A Thought--as I in your life seem to be!

I will be faithful to thee
aye I will!
And Death shall choose me with a wondering eye
That he did not discern and domicile
One his by right ever since that last Good-bye!
I have no care for friends or kin or prime
Of manhood who deal gently with me here
Amid the happy people of my time
Who work their love's fulfilment I appear
Numb as a vane that cankers on its point
True to the wind that kissed ere canker came:
Despised by souls of Now who would disjoint
The mind from memory making Life all aim
My old dexterities in witchery gone
And nothing left for Love to look upon.

This love puts all humanity from me
I can but maledict her pray her dead
For giving love and getting love of thee
Feeding a heart that else mine own had fed!
How much I love I know not life not known
Save as one unit I would add love by
But this I know my being is but thine own
Fused from its separateness by ecstasy.
And thus I grasp thy amplitudes of her
Ungrasped though helped by rough-regarding eyes
Canst thou then hate me as an envier
Who see unrecked what I so dearly prize?
Believe me Lost One Love is lovelier
The more it shapes its moan in selfish-wise.

If but some vengeful god would call to me
From up the sky and laugh: "Thou suffering thing
Know that thy sorrow is my ecstasy
That thy love's loss is my hate's profiting!"
Then would I bear it clench myself and die
Steeled by the sense of ire unmerited
Half-eased in that a Powerfuller than I
Had willed and meted me the tears I shed.
But not so. How arrives it joy lies slain
And why unblooms the best hope ever sown?
--Crass Casualty obstructs the sun and rain
And dicing Time for gladness casts a moan. . . .
These purblind Doomsters had as readily strown
Blisses about my pilgrimage as pain.

Thy shadow Earth from Pole to Central Sea
Now steals along upon the Moon's meek shine
In even monochrome and curving line
Of imperturbable serenity.
How shall I link such sun-cast symmetry
With the torn troubled form I know as thine
That profile placid as a brow divine
With continents of moil and misery?
And can immense Mortality but throw
So small a shade and Heaven's high human scheme
Be hemmed within the coasts yon arc implies?
Is such the stellar gauge of earthly show
Nation at war with nation brains that teem
Heroes and women fairer than the skies? 

"You see those mothers squabbling there?"
Remarks the man of the cemetery.
"One says in tears ''Tis mine lies here!'
Another 'Nay mine you Pharisee!'
Another 'How dare you move my flowers
And put your own on this grave of ours!'
But all their children were laid therein
At different times like sprats in a tin.
"And then the main drain had to cross
And we moved the lot some nights ago
And packed them away in the general foss
With hundreds more. But their folks don't know
And as well cry over a new-laid drain
As anything else to ease your pain!" 

"My bride is not coming alas!" says the groom
And the telegram shakes in his hand. "I own
It was hurried! We met at a dancing-room
When I went to the Cattle-Show alone
And then next night where the Fountain leaps
And the Street of the Quarter-Circle sweeps.
"Ay she won me to ask her to be my wife--
'Twas foolish perhaps!--to forsake the ways
Of the flaring town for a farmer's life.
She agreed. And we fixed it. Now she says:
It's sweet of you dear to prepare me a nest
But a swift short gay life suits me best.
What I really am you have never gleaned
I had eaten the apple ere you were weaned."

I walked in loamy Wessex lanes afar
From rail-track and from highway and I heard
In field and farmstead many an ancient word
Of local lineage like "Thu bist" "Er war"
"Ich woll" "Er sholl" and by-talk similar
Nigh as they speak who in this month's moon gird
At England's very loins thereunto spurred
By gangs whose glory threats and slaughters are.
Then seemed a Heart crying: "Whosoever they be
At root and bottom of this who flung this flame
Between folk kin tongued even as are we
"Sinister ugly lurid be their fame
May their familiars grow to shun their name
And their brood perish everlastingly."

Pale pilgrim of the heavens that late didst glide
With sunbeam staff the violet vales along
Where fountains of fresh dew gushed up in song
To bathe thy golden feet and then subside--
Last wave that sparkled on time's ebbing tide--
How are thy bright limbs laid amid the throng
Of vanished days that drooped over earthly wrong
Seeing how virtue is to vice allied
And vanished blushingly.
Night's winding-sheet is round thee and the eyes
That found a health or fever in thy ray
And thoughtfully perused on evening skies
Thine elegy star-lettered--now away
Turn their brief thoughts of thee and thus men moralize.

A liberal worldling gay philosopher
Art thou that liftst thy young and yellow head
Over the dim burial of the scarce-cold dead
Building above thy brother's sepulchre
A home of love that sense might almost err
Deeming thy end therein to woo and wed
The flower-haired earth for ever. Yet the red
In yonder west may well such dreams deter!
Yes thou all-hailed To-day! whose outstretched hand
Scatters loose riches on a bankrupt land
Even thou art but a leaf from off the tree
Of yellowing time
a grain of glistening sand
Dashed from the waters of that unsailed sea
Where thou to-night shalt sink and I as soon may be.

Gaily and greenly let my seasons run:
And should the war-winds of the world uproot
The sanctities of life and its sweet fruit
Cast forth as fuel for the fiery sun
The dews be turned to ice--fair days begun
In peace wear out in pain and sounds that suit
Despair and discord keep Hope's harp-string mute
Still let me live as Love and Life were one:
Still let me turn on earth a child-like gaze
And trust the whispered charities that bring
Tidings of human truth
with inward praise
Watch the weak motion of each common thing
And find it glorious--still let me raise
On wintry wrecks an altar to the Spring.

It is a strange thing but an excellent
That virtue with delight is seldom wed
For still it happens that some accident
Doth keep the excelling stranger from her bed:
So think I that the elements combine
Against the occurrence of such blissful woe
Nor ever are the planets now in trine
To make soft light upon this meeting flow.
Ah me the armour that Achilles wore
Was made with sweat and with a toiling brow
And worn with sweat and of all love forlore
As ever in this age we find it now:
Who thinks to rise above his equal peers
Must yield to death after long-toilsome years.

Sometimes upon the hills in thought I stand
And travel on the wings of fantasy
With what delight the globd earth is spanned
With how soft foot the wingd moments fly!
A silent dream environs me around
I am not what I am I am not here
But yet I walk upon my wonted ground
But yet the woods unto my sight appear
The woods in which from morn till mournful eve
I wander and would shroud myself from day
And envy even the fox whom caves receive
And fast secure him from the glaring ray
This body and machine indeed is here
But flies my soul into a higher sphere.

It is much immortal beauty to admire
But more immortal beauty to withstand
The perfect soul can overcome desire
If beauty with divine delight be scanned
For what is beauty but the blooming child
Of fair Olympus that in night must end
And be for ever from that bliss exiled
If admiration stand too much its friend?
The wind may be enamoured of a flower
The ocean of the green and laughing shore
The silver lightning of a lofty tower
But must not with too near a love adore
Or flower and margin and cloud-capped tower
Love and delight shall with delight devour!

O Tunbridge I approach thee with delight
That hast from many streams thy lovely name
Thy hop-gardens are blooming to the sight
Thy orchards of rich growth are dear to fame:
Not in all Kent in wealthy Kent is found
A vale more beauteous to the farmer's eye
Meads that with wheat and barley more abound
Or a more growth of luscious grass supply:
Thy Castle on the silent Medway stands
And mournfully overlooks the laughing town
But thy fair school upbuilt by pious hands
Demands the poet's lays and verdant crown:
There Virgil and great Homer well are taught
Virtue well prized and evil set at nought.

The ruddy-purpled day in light retires
The shrieking owlets wanton in the air
And others hoot to see the rising fires
Of Hesperus exalt their glory fair
The cattle low from out their stabled yard
From house to house the chiding dog is heard
And now the hamlets that have laboured hard
The live-long day have their sweet toil deferred:
Above the moon her silver orbit wheels
With pale delight like fitful tragedy
And to the shepherd his damp path reveals
That to the longing arms of Madge doth hie:
In cities now they play great scenes to kings
Whilst here muse I and think of deeper things.

Soft Music in those hazel eyes I see
And tho' as yet she keeps a silent shrine
And pours not forth her retinue divine
Enthrond there sits sovereign Poesy
There slowly slowly kindle fancies free
While sweetest thoughts in that sweet face combine
To aid the goddess in her dear design
And wake at length in brightest symphony.
If aught of art prophetic I possess
No lowly sphere for thee the Fates ordain
But from those vermeil lips a loveliness
As yet unheard shall rise in raptured strain
Till all the countless race of men confess
The god Apollo sings on earth again.

Here from earth's ddal heights and dingles lowly
The representatives of nature meet
Not like a congress or alliance holy
Of kings to rivet chains but with their sweet
Blossomy mouths to preach the love complete
That with pearled mistletoe and beaded holly
Clothed them in green unchangeable to greet
Winter with smiles and banish melancholy.
l envy not the Emathian madman's fame
Who won the world and built immortal shame
On tears and blood but if some flower new-found
In its embalming cup might shroud my name
Mine were a tomb more worthily renowned
Than Cheops' pile or Artemisia's mound.
And thou art gone most loved most honoured friend!

No never more thy gentle voice shall blend
With air of Earth its pure ideal tones
Binding in one as with harmonious zones
The heart and intellect. And I no more
Shall with thee gaze on that unfathomed deep
The Human Soulas when pushed off the shore
Thy mystic bark would through the darkness sweep
Itself the while so bright! For oft we seemed
As on some starless seaall dark above
All dark belowyet onward as we drove
To plough up light that ever round us streamed.
But he who mourns is not as one bereft
Of all he loved: thy living Truths are left. 

How vast how dread o'erwhelming is the thought
Of space interminable! to the soul
A circling weight that crushes into naught
Her mighty faculties! a wondrous whole
Without or parts beginning or an end!
How fearful then on desperate wings to send
The fancy e'en amid the waste profound!
Yet born as if all daring to astound
Thy giant hand O Angelo hath hurled
E'en human forms with all their mortal weight
Down the dread voidfall endless as their fate!
Already now they seem from world to world
For ages thrown
yet doomed another past
Another still to reach nor e'er to reach the last!

O now I feel as though another sense
From heaven descending had informed my soul
I feel the pleasurable full control
Of Grace harmonious boundless and intense.
In thee celestial Group embodied lives
The subtile mystery that speaking gives
Itself resolved
the essences combined
Of Motion ceaseless Unity complete.
Borne like a leaf by some soft eddying wind
Mine eyes impelled as by enchantment sweet
From part to part with circling motion rove
Yet seem unconscious of the power to move
From line to line through endless changes run
O'er countless shapes yet seem to gaze on One. 

Full well Tibaldi did thy kindred mind
The mighty spell of Buonarroti own.
Like one who reading magic words receives
The gift of intercourse with worlds unknown
'T was thine deciphering Nature's mystic leaves
To hold strange converse with the viewless wind
To see the Spirits in embodied forms
Of gales and whirlwinds hurricanes and storms.
For lo! obedient to thy bidding teems
Fierce into shape their stern relentless Lord:
His form of motion ever-restless seems
Or if to rest inclined his turbid soul
On Hecla's top to stretch and give the word
To subject Winds that sweep the desert pole.

Occasioned by His Picture of Jacob's Dream
As in that twilight superstitious age
When all beyond the narrow grasp of mind
Seemed fraught with meanings of supernal kind
When e'en the learned philosophic sage
Wont with the stars through boundless space to range
Listened with reverence to the changeling's tale
E'en so thou strangest of all beings strange!
E'en so thy visionary scenes I hail
That like the rambling of an idiot's speech
No image giving of a thing on earth
Nor thought significant in Reason's reach
Yet in their random shadowings give birth
To thoughts and things from other worlds that come
And fill the soul and strike the reason dumb.

There is a charm no vulgar mind can reach
No critic thwart no mighty master teach
A charm how mingled of the good and ill!
Yet still so mingled that the mystic whole
Shall captive hold the struggling gazer's will
Till vanquished reason own its full control.
And such O Rubens thy mysterious art
The charm that vexes yet enslaves the heart!
Thy lawless style from timid systems free
Impetuous rolling like a troubled sea
High o'er the rocks of reason's lofty verge
Impending hangs yet ere the foaming surge
Breaks o'er the bound the refluent ebb of taste
Back from the shore impels the watery waste.

From one unused in pomp of words to raise
A courtly monument of empty praise
Where self transpiring through the flimsy pile
Betrays the builder's ostentatious guile
Accept O West these unaffected lays
Which genius claims and grateful justice pays.
Still green in age thy vigorous powers impart
The youthful freshness of a blameless heart:
For thine unaided by another's pain
The wiles of envy or the sordid train
Of selfishness has been the manly race
Of one who felt the purifying grace
Of honest fame nor found the effort vain
E'en for itself to love thy soul-ennobling art.

The Earth has had her visitation. Like to this
She hath not known save when the mounting waters
Made of her orb one universal ocean.
For now the Tree that grew in Paradise
The deadly Tree that first gave Evil motion
And sent its poison through Earth's sons and daughters
Had struck again its root in every land
And now its fruit was ripe about to fall
And now a mighty Kingdom raised the hand
To pluck and eat. Then from his throne stepped forth
The King of Hell and stood upon the Earth:
But not as once upon the Earth to crawl.
A Nation's congregated form he took
Till drunk with sin and blood Earth to her centre shook. 

What master-voice shall from the dim profound
Of Thought evoke its fearful mighty Powers?
Those dread enchanters whose terrific call
May never be gainsaid
whose wondrous thrall
Alone the Infinite the Uncreate may bound
In whose dark presence e'en the Reason cowers
Lost in their mystery e'en while her slaves
Doing her proud behests. Ay who to sense
Shall bring them forth?those subtile Powers that wear
No shape their own yet to the mind dispense
All shapes that be. Or who in deepest graves
Seal down the crime which they shall not uptear?
Those fierce avengers whom the murdered dead
Shall hear and follow to the murderer's bed.

A smile!Alas how oft the lips that bear
This floweret of the soul but give to air
Like flowering graves the growth of buried care!
Then drear indeed that miserable heart
Where this last human boon is aye denied!
If such there be it claims in man no part
Whose deepest grief has yet a mirthful bride.
For whose so many as the sad man's face?
His joy though brief is yet reprieve from woe
The waters of his life in darkness flow
Yet when the accidents of time displace
The cares that vault their channel and let in
A gleam of day with what a joyous din
The stream jets out to catch the sunny grace!

O Art high gift of Heaven! how oft defamed
When seeming praised! To most a craft that fits
By dead prescriptive Rule the scattered bits
Of gathered knowledge even so misnamed
By some who would invoke thee but not so
By him the noble Tuscan*who gave birth
To forms unseen of man unknown to Earth
Now living habitants he felt the glow
Of thy revealing touch that brought to view
The invisible Idea and he knew
E'en by his inward sense its form was true:
'T was life to life responding - highest truth!
So through Elisha's faith the Hebrew Youth
Beheld the thin blue air to fiery chariots grow. 

Oh who can look on that celestial face
And kindred for it claim with aught on earth?
If ever here more lovely form had birth
Nonever that supernal puritythat grace
So eloquent of unimpassioned love!
That by a simple movement thus imparts
Its own harmonious peace the while our hearts
Rise as by instinct to the world above.
And yet we look on cold unconscious stone.
But what is that which thus our spirits own
As Truth and Life? 'Tis not material Art
But e'en the Sculptor's soul to sense unseal'd.
Oh never may he doubtits witness so reveal'd
There lives within him an immortal part. 

When last we parted thou wert young and fair
How beautiful let fond remembrance say!
Alas! since then old time has stolen away
Full thirty years leaving my temples bare.--
So has it perished like a thing of air
The dream of love and youth!--now both are grey
Yet still remembering that delightful day
Though time with his cold touch has blanched my hair
Though I have suffered many years of pain
Since then though I did never think to live
To hear that voice or see those eyes again
I can a sad but cordial greeting give
And for thy welfare breathe as warm a prayer--
As when I loved thee young and fair!

No not in woods nor fells nor pastures wild
Nor left alone to changeful nature's care
You opened on the light and breathed the air
But one with blush like thine and look as mild
As dewy morn with love all undefiled
Chose out a kindly spot and made thy bed
Safe from the cruel blast and heedless tread
And watched thy birth and took thee for her child
And human hands solicitous have trained
Thy slender stalk and eyes on thee have dwelt
Radiant with thought and human feelings rained
Into thy bosom e'en till thou hast felt
That through thy life a human virtue ran
And now art come to greet thy fellow man. 

Music! When through my heart in youth's bright morn
Your flow began to surge emotions known
To that glad time found overflow in tone
You were confessional! Then overborn
In tumultuous tests with rushing wind and storm
The shell of life was hither thither blown.
Though only echoes lingered--old forms had flown--
Still melody my searching hours transform.
I need not seek beyond the night bird's song
Soaring in melody above the tree
And now a human voice in ethereal praise
Answers from deep to deep until we long
To merge our own in reneed minstrelsy
And free all aching hearts for singing days.

An old poem returns in this our time
Singing as sweetly as in days gone by
Tuned to rhythm that can never die
And yet my heart is quiet for I pine
For a lost presence that leaves no sign--
A shadowy self that once would smile and sigh
And muse in memory old verse to try
That one might trace the form behind the line.
Oh heart leap up again! Just once impart
The fire that animated what was read
Again possess the line the poet's dream
And in a flash reveal the magic art
That creates truth! Leave now no word unsaid
To kindle in the hearts of men the gleam.

And still you scorn the confines life would cast
About your fixed and marked identity.
A father lover friend tried endlessly
And all the cycled censors failed at last.
Now resurrected in your revived past
At signal of the butterfly and bee
Witness your love wedded in mystery!
Beyond the book the dream once believed you clasp.
Not what we read or see or trace in line
Becomes the ultimate of greater worth
It is the dream we hold as our own right
Unseen by men but envied for the sign
It shines upon the face of these on earth
Who cling to love and faith beyond the light.

More than a measured space the searching heart
Has granted to this herald far ahead
We scarce outline his shadowed counterpart
As down the hurrying years his light is shed.
A modern man! Tradition's silhouette!
In that supremacy secure he folds
The barrier that will signify our debt
When Time acknowledges the gifts he holds.
His light outlines memorials in our day.
His words speak for the shattered songs of men.
Lighting the Titan with a piercing ray
We are made one with prophecy again.
Futurity extends a sheltering palm
And safely draws the poet's dream to calm.

Beyond the dark beyond the lighted mote
We share your depth and pinnacle of dream
We crave the ecstasy of higher note
Searching the lanes where late you traced the gleam.
In shadowed brightness now you hover near.
Why trails your pinion in the breaking dawn?
You haunt the gray 'twixt joy and mortal fear.
Yours is the sweetest saddest voice we muse upon.
Your wistful words in careless fancy wrought
May answer for our heart's perplexity
Restore that moment when your spirit thought
Hung pendant trusting all eternity.
So may a single bird unsought unseen
Trace heaven's hope above Time's tarnished green.

The little plot I claim for my new share
May be stony harsh and rough with rock--
A spot that idle men are wont to mock
And curse as never worth a wise man's care.
I leave to them the right to choose and dare.
I never gauge my labor by the clock.
The Fall may never bring my grain to shock
Yet on my hearth my fire my fruit I share.
The rough endurance of an earlier day
Survives and shapes the will to fit the need
And though the ancient quarrel can smart and goad
The back bends to the task the furrowed way.
Man dream that Mother Earth will bless the load
His hope vaults high to ride the harvest load. 

Soul searching thou hast journeyed far and wide
On dusty pilgrimages charting the day
For those whose fading forms your power would stay
And fix forever where great truths abide
Surely in seeking you will never hide
One portrait lest at teh last in Time's own way
Our measure be still less than what men say
And all we might bequeath in you will bide.
For all the raising of the lifeless forms--
That imminence of birth and death revealed
For every waking figure--cold now warm
With confirmation and with wonder sealed
The soul acknowledges the breaking light
And walks with former tread out of the night.

I heard a great physician gently say
Not one man's life raised up for price or fame
But one gift made to lift the curse of pain
One life of effort just to add one ray
Of brighter living in our human day.
To fix a bit of life where death has lain
To bless one tortured soul where strength might wane
Exceeds the wealth a suffering would would pay.
For every man who counts his gifts for gain
A hundred stand to help men on their way
No finer truer souls push back the pall
Than those who stand to guard the gates of pain.
No gold can recompense the part they play
Fighting they watch life's curtains rise and fall.

There was one among them spoke as a child
Confessed he questioned what he ought to know
Some answer that true knowledge would bestow
If he were ready! And in spirit mild
He must have grasped the truth for we beguiled
Stand by and marvel that so far below
Our little minds question and rarely go
Along the mounting trail so strange so wild!
He pushes past the last guide post to press
A print to mark the taking of the place.
Defying precedent the truth he would forecast
Into a newer realm beyond the stress
Of man's vast ignorance of time and space
That other souls might read the law at last.

"A dead dog speaks" so runs the preacher's text--
An ancient line of truth a paradox
That might be listed with the line that shocks
And holds our thought and some way almost next
We pause and read no more until the next
Head line allures. But even then truth mocks
And he who turns to question and unlocks
The truth of dog and speech may use the text.
'Tis said the Christ spoke many a long lost word
As fraught with life as those we often quote
And once when suddenly He sensed the death
Of some poor dog the hurrying crowd then heard
These strange words rise from Him who stopped to note
The cur "His teeth are whiter than pearls" He saith.

If from the chaos in the picture's frame
There finally emerge a figure fair
It seems a miracle the brush must dare
If the creator seek for modern fame.
Perhaps only an initiate dare name
These half real beings--puppets that seem to stare
Out through the maze and wait for those who care
Enough to recognize them without blame.
So often seems the picture of our day
A mass of unrelated forms and light
And if there be a few who see it real
Who sense the revelation and dare say
"There moves a figure to our deepening sight"
From that admission Truth may make its seal. 

Far have I wandered in the mind's long quest
And many teachers have I called by name--
Past all the goals that mark youth's end and aim
Now spurs again the urge that knows no rest.
Which is the trail to take? Is this way best?
With soul more cautious and aware the same
Vast range reveals new heights to claim
And fewer guides to chart the heart's new test.
Now be it found that clearly height on height
The mind retain no excess hopeless load
So when wisdom descends to guide the will
All stands revealed as when a burning light
Is set by unseen hands beside a road
And so we safely climb and round the hill.

A father is our greatest need today!
For all our willful careless venturing
But though one move and act for us--sighing
We see him not or understand the way
He marks from dark to light and still men say
All all is night! Where is the soul we sing!
"Land of the Pilgrim's pride"! Better to bring
A mumbled word than no homage to pay!
Yet fatherlike he stands for us and prays
His judgment and his power may be our strength.
He knows our human need our old time fears
And though it seem his cautious arm delays
His eye surveys our land--its breadth its length--
O will he guide us through when this storm clears?

Along the sunny side of the woodland path
The wild rose hedge now dons its new green gown.
Now blooms the rose far from the gardened town!
Now wafts the perfume which no other bloom hath
Distilled or dreamed might be. Though winter's wrath
Touched all the man made gardens on hill and down
Wild roses wreathe again the Spring's gay crown--
An old time grace renews the smile the laugh!
Here is a hope to build through cloud and sun.
What though the blossom breathe for one brief hour?
The mystery lives in the heart that knows
True beauty believing that the Spring will come
Strewing pale petals and the perfumed flower
That has never changed--Oh sweet wild rose! 

Some gifts a moneyed man can buy for gold!
For treasures from your singing heart I long.
O friend now give to me your rarer song
For on that coral bank grown slowly old
Maturing beauty broods and will enfold
The precious residue of dreams. No curse or wrong
Has marred your gift but strong as love is strong
Your cadenced word reveals what life might hold!
Serenity exceeding what the will might school.
Courageous evidence of tested worth!
A charity facing the world's demands!
All this I recognize in this carved jewel
That has evolved from your fair shore of youth--
A perfect part of the true whole it stands. 

As we hear the nocturne rising once more
Flowing through unseen hands caressingly
The power of music rifts our apathy.
Unvoiced longings uncharted hopes--the store
Youth yields to age rise in the heart's deep core.
Song phrasings linger still and certainly
We follow up the strain and memory
Recalls the way that love once sang its lore.
Then the recurring cadence rose supreme
Above life's jangled strains and so it grew
To dominate the perfect arc the heart
Declared high festival part real part dream.
And now there sounds a beat the artist knew
While faint and fainter sounds the singing part.

My children are my own interpreters
Of this strange modern world of ours
That seems to yield no keys no pass no powers
Into my hands unless perchance the spurs
That now and then I loan and there occurs
So grave a doubt such hounding of the hours
I choose to trust the child that never cowers
That I may share his lot whate'er incurs.
One sweeps the univers unseen but heart
One loafs along the field the stream the height
One delves into the mind's rich vein of ore.
And Mother-like I pray some magic word
Of mine be near if tears should blind their sight
And may my love illumine more and more.

Perhaps unseeing through Mount Wilson's eye
We look beside us looms one that can see!
Speechless we leave the modern laboratory
Recalling just a flash of truth we sigh
Confounded by the answer to our Why?
No man can comprehend for certainty
The workings of a soul to set life free
Because the soul is high as heaven is high.
Posterity lives in the Einstein mind
It traces out the maze of Michelson
It works within the brain of Millikan
And if we marvel how its findings bind
Our common soul--each age has sought and won
A power unseen that would lift up all men.

Bard immortal your word is as a ledge
On which men lean and vision life at best.
Alas! that Lachesis withheld the pledge
That every verse of worth will now attest!
Those seeing eyes that see not ever quail--
Their length or lot of life determines sight.
I stand condemned if in my day I fail
To meet your word and there behold the light.
Were it not fitting then serving life's hours
To bear the best a poet's heart e'er gives
And measure to this heritage of ours
Nor miss one cadenced line where Shakespeare lives?
"The April of his prime" speaks in this place--
Through windows of my age his light I trace. 

I note your shawl bonnet and sturdy shoe
Your dress your swinging step your out-stretched hand
Your forward searching eye across the land.
I trace my own ancestry back through you!
No longer is your figure strange and new
But animated with the forms that stand
Enshrined in memory--the Mother band
That followed to the west so fine so true!
That soul that spurned the Allegheny range!
That one adventuring far far beyond
The Vermont hills and destined to meet its own
Again and yet again to pass. So strange
The emerging! A child and Mother fond
Still following the lure of fire and home. 

Today all barriers in your garden lift!
An instant and the poet in your breast
Swings on the compass of the further west
And you become a dream of wings that drift
On upper reaches where the eye may rift
Uncharted places and put earth to test.
Proven--your words anchor the souls unrest.
The flowering magic of the ash I sift!
And now I wait reluctant that I leave
This endeared spot where mysteries are wrought--
The pool's mirror the star dust on the green
The eerie sense of some one at my sleeve.
All the reality the curious sought
Is dimmed at sight of one in silver sheen. 

Thy artistry has touched all types of men
And fashioned them again to forms we know
So when the curtain rises 'tis as though
They speak again. Father Serra then
Enters Mission Walls and roses blow as when
He spoke. And now I hear the voice of Romeo
In gardens where our loves in May still go
So plays thy voice the harp Aeolion!
Old Lear hath found a gratitude in thee
And Woolsey proves sincerity through you
And if for sight of all the Seven Ages.
I seek a miniature behold I see
Its perfect form. To every man his due
Master of Make Believe we are your pages!

Let others plant vast gardens. I am content
With tiny little plots--a pansy bed
A row of gardenias some white some red
And to a sunny spot Daphne is sent
With tiny corsages of rarest scent.
Through every season by my garden led
I wake to be surprised turning my head
To meet the splendor Midas must have lent.
Ah gay woodbine against the stony wall
And goldenrod I thought you'd gone to seed
The purple aster sways--its color fills
The patio. The orange tree blooms and all
The roses bare an opening bud nor heed
That frost creeps down the Pasadena hills. 

My shut-in window framed for me today
The morning light upon a flowering tree
A brooding bird a gay one soaring free!
As swiftly flashed the pictures day did pass
And ere the setting sun burnished my glass
A leaf appeared to dance in ecstasy
And suddenly no leaf my eye could see!
Beyond my seeing eye the wonders pass!
Now fleeting shadows seem my dreams to woo
A tireless spinner threads a web of lace
The tall pine tree is tipped with newer green
And where aerial wires appear as new
The shore of cloud land I can clearly trace.
Now stars appear as guides to worlds unseen.

A Nation brings its proven gifts to you!
Take home these flowers from ashes and from tears
They are the blossoms of our harrowed years
Strong in the strain of native growth yet new
And burgeoning as sturdy plants will do.
They have survived a storm of crushing fears
They have withstood the blight of cruel jeers
Now in God's cycled time the flowers are due.
No wealth or worldly thing could bring more power--
A warmer heart beats for humanity
And more unselfishly men act today.
In this your time and deep prophetic hour
Men bear
the stoics smile in irony
America is furrowing a way! 

Beyond the years there is for us somewhere
A haven that will salvage all life's gifts
A sheltered harbor where in dreams one drifts.
Against that time I chart the souls I dare
To prophesy are those whose gifts we share
Today and then. So may the Truth that rifts
Our cloudy sky be as a beam that lifts
In clear relief the features Time calls fair.
Now to my countrymen in heart and time
I offer neither proof nor record here
Rather affection's charting of the dream
Of high endeavor in its earthly climb.
Forgive those tracings not altogether clear
Enshrine within your hold the talent's gleam.

Fourteen small broidered berries on the hem
Of Circe's mantle each of magic gold
Fourteen of lone Calypso's tears that rolled
Into the sea for pearls to come of them
Fourteen clear signs of omen in the gem
With which Medea human fate foretold
Fourteen small drops which Faustus growing old
Craved of the Fiend to water Life's dry stem.
It is the pure white diamond Dante brought
To Beatrice
the sapphire Laura wore
When Petrarch cut it sparkling out of thought
The ruby Shakespeare hewed from his heart's core
The dark deep emerald that Rossetti wrought
For his own soul to wear for evermore. 

In dim green depths rot ingot-laden ships
And gold doubloons that from the drowned hand fell
Lie nestled in the ocean-flower's bell
With love's old gifts once kissed by long-drowned lips
And round some wrought gold cup the sea-grass whips
And hides lost pearls near pearls still in their shell
Where sea-weed forests fill each ocean dell
And seek dim sunlight with their restless tips.
So lie the wasted gifts the long-lost hopes
Beneath the now hushed surface of myself
In lonelier depths than where the diver gropes
They lie deep deep
but I at times behold
In doubtful glimpses on some reefy shelf
The gleam of irrecoverable gold. 

What wast thou little baby that art dead--
A one-day's blossom that the hoar-frost nips?
A bee that's crusht the first bright day it sips?
A small dropt gem that in the earth we tread?
Or cherub's smiling gold-encircled head
That Death from out Life's painted missal rips?
Or murmured prayer that barely reached the lips?
Or sonnet's fair first line--the rest unsaid?
Oh 'tis not hard to find what thou wast like
The world is full of fair unfinished things
That vanish like a dawn-admonished elf.
Life teems with opening forms for Death to strike
The woods are full of unfledged broken wings
Enough for us thou wast thy baby self. 

Lo through the open window of the room
That was her nursery a small bright spark
Comes wandering in as falls the summer dark
And with a measured flight explores the gloom.
As if it sought among the things that loom
Vague in the dusk for sume familiar mark
And like a light on some wee unseen bark
It tacks in search of who knows what or whom.
I know 'tis but a fire-fly
yet its flight
So straight so measured round the empty bed
Might be a little soul's that night sets free
And as it nears I feel my heart grow tight
With something like a superstitious dread
And watch it breathless lest it should be she.

The Robin gave three hops and chirp'd and said:
"Yes I knew Puck and loved him
though I trow
He mimick'd oft my whistle chuckling low
Yes I knew cousin Puck
but he is dead.
We found him lying on his mushroom bed--
The Wren and I--half cover'd up with snow
As we were hopping where the berries grow.
We think he died of cold. Ay Puck is fled."
And then the Wood-Mouse said: "We made the Mole
Dig him a little grave beneath the moss
And four big Dormice placed him in the hole.
The Squirrel made with sticks a little cross
Puck was a Christian elf and had a soul
And all we velvet jackets mourn his loss."

Poor Poet-Ape that would be thought our chief
Whose works are e'en the frippery of wit
From brokage is become so bold a thief
As we the robbed leave rage and pity it.
At first he made low shifts would pick and glean
Buy the reversion of old plays
now grown
To a little wealth and credit in the scene
He takes up all makes each man's wit his own.
And told of this he slights it. Tut such crimes
The sluggish gaping auditor devours
He marks not whose 'twas first and after-times
May judge it to be his as well as ours.
Fool as if half eyes will not know a fleece
From locks of wool or shreds from the whole piece.

In Mary's absence reason gains his throne
And binds with stricter chains the struggling breast
Scared at his angry frown and stern behest
Love spreads his wings and flies with many a moan.
When Mary comes with vermeil-tinctured cheek
With graceful mien and mirth-awakening eye
Prudence disarmed forsakes his ground to fly
And reason's chains as touched by magic break.
Thus when the chilling blast transforms to frost
The night-born dews that bathe the polished glass
The roving eye in pleasing error lost
Sees rock and woods crowd the fantastic mass
But soon as shines the sun's meridian ray
The icy prospect melts in streams away.

If by dull rhymes our English must be chained
And like Andromeda the Sonnet sweet
Fettered in spite of paind loveliness
Let us find out if we must be constrained
Sandals more interwoven and complete
To fit the naked foot of poesy
Let us inspect the lyre and weigh the stress
Of every chord and see what may be gained
By ear industrious and attention meet
Misers of sound and syllable no less
Than Midas of his coinage let us be
Jealous of dead leaves in the bay-wreath crown
So if we may not let the Muse be free
She will be bound with garlands of her own. 

Much have I travell'd in the realms of gold
And many goodly states and kingdoms seen
Round many western islands have I been
Which bards in fealty to Apollo hold.
Oft of one wide expanse had I been told
That deep-brow'd Homer ruled as his demesne
Yet did I never breathe its pure serene
Till I heard Chapman speak out loud and bold:
Then felt I like some watcher of the skies
When a new planet swims into his ken
Or like stout Cortez when with eagle eyes
He star'd at the Pacific--and all his men
Look'd at each other with a wild surmise
Silent upon a peak in Darien.

The poetry of earth is never dead:
When all the birds are faint with the hot sun
And hide in cooling trees a voice will run
From hedge to hedge about the new-mown mead
That is the Grasshopper's--he takes the lead
In summer luxury--he has never done
With his delights
for when tired out with fun
He rests at ease beneath some pleasant weed.
The poetry of earth is ceasing never:
On a lone winter evening when the frost
Has wrought a silence from the stove there shrills
The Cricket's song in warmth increasing ever
And seems to one in drowsiness half lost
The Grasshopper's among some grassy hills.

O golden tongued Romance with serene lute!
Fair plumed Syren Queen of far-away!
Leave melodizing on this wintry day
Shut up thine olden pages and be mute:
Adieu! for once again the fierce dispute
Betwixt damnation and impassion'd clay
Must I burn through
once more humbly assay
The bitter-sweet of this Shakespearian fruit:
Chief Poet! and ye clouds of Albion
Begetters of our deep eternal theme!
When through the old oak Forest I am gone
Let me not wander in a barren dream
But when I am consumed in the fire
Give me new Phoenix wings to fly at my desire.

My spirit is too weak--mortality
Weighs heavily on me like unwilling sleep
And each imagin'd pinnacle and steep
Of godlike hardship tells me I must die
Like a sick Eagle looking at the sky.
Yet 'tis a gentle luxury to weep
That I have not the cloudy winds to keep
Fresh for the opening of the morning's eye.
Such dim-conceived glories of the brain
Bring round the heart an undescribable feud
So do these wonders a most dizzy pain
That mingles Grecian grandeur with the rude
Wasting of old Time--with a billowy main--
A sun--a shadow of a magnitude. 

Why did I laugh tonight? No voice will tell.
No God no Demon of severe response
Deigns to reply from Heaven or from Hell.
Then to my human heart I turn at once.
Heart! Thou and I are here sad and alone
I say why did I laugh! Oh mortal pain!
O Darkness! Darkness! ever must I moan
To question Heaven and Hell and Heart in vain.
Why did I laugh? I know this Being's lease
My fancy to its utmost blisses spreads
Yet would I on this very midnight cease
And the world's gaudy ensigns see in shreds
Verse Fame and Beauty are intense indeed
But Death intenser--Death is Life's high meed. 

When I have fears that I may cease to be
Before my pen has glean'd my teeming brain
Before high-piled books in charactery
Hold like rich garners the full ripen'd grain
When I behold upon the night's starr'd face
Huge cloudy symbols of a high romance
And think that I may never live to trace
Their shadows with the magic hand of chance
And when I feel fair creature of an hour
That I shall never look upon thee more
Never have relish in the faery power
Of unreflecting love
--then on the shore
Of the wide world I stand alone and think
Till love and fame to nothingness do sink.

Bright star would I were stedfast as thou art--
Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night
And watching with eternal lids apart
Like nature's patient sleepless Eremite
The moving waters at their priestlike task
Of pure ablution round earth's human shores
Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask
Of snow upon the mountains and the moors
No--yet still stedfast still unchangeable
Pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast
To feel for ever its soft fall and swell
Awake for ever in a sweet unrest
Still still to hear her tender-taken breath
And so live ever-or else swoon to death.

A maiden with a garland on her head
Sat in her bower between two lovers: one
Wore such a wreath as hers
the other none.
But him in merry wise she garlanded
With that she wore
then gaily took instead
The other's wreath and wore it as her own
Whereat both smiled each deeming she had shown
Himself the favourite. Though she nothing said
Concerning this by any spoken word
Yet by her act methinks the maid preferred
The lover she discrowned. A friendly thing
Or whimsical--no more--the gift she gave
(A queen might do as much by any slave)
But he whose crown she wore was her heart's king.

That I adore thee my most gracious queen
More in my spirit than my body's sense
Of thine were such incredible pretence
As I would scorn to utter. Thou hast seen
When eyes and lips responsive to the heart
Were bent in worship of thy lips and eyes
Until O bliss! each pleasure-pulsing part
Hath found its fellow in Love's sweet emprise
Each answering other in such eager wise
As they would never cease to kiss and cling--
Ah! then meseemed amid the storm of sighs
I heard thy voice exclaiming "O my King!
So may my soul be ever true to thine
As with thy body thou dost worship mine!" 

The morn is cold. A whiteness newly-brought
Lightly and loosely powders every place
The panes among yon trees that eastward face
Flash rosy fire from the opposite dawning caught
As the face flashes with a splendid thought
As the heart flashes with a touch of grace
When heaven's light comes on ways we cannot trace
Unsought yet lovelier than we ever sought.
In the blue northern sky is a pale moon
Through whose thin texture something doth appear
Like the dark shadow of a branchy tree.
Fit morning for the prayers of one like me
Whose life is in midwinter and must soon
Come to the shortest day of all my year!

O Earth that had so long in darkness lain
Waiting and listening for the Voice that cried
"Let there be light!"--on thy first eventide
What woe what fear wrung thy dumb soul with pain!
In darkling space down dropt the red sun slain
With all his banners drooping. Far and wide
Spread desolation's vast and blackening tide.
How couldst thou know that day would dawn again?
But the long hours wore on till lo! pale gleams
Of faint far glory lit the eastern skies
Broadening and reddening till the sun's full beams
Broke in clear golden splendour on thine eyes.
Darkness and brooding anguish were but dreams
Lost in a trembling wonder of surprise!

Even so O Life all tremulous with woe
Thou too didst cower when without sound or jar
From the high zenith sinking fast and far
Thy sun went out of heaven! How couldst thou know
In that dark hour that never tide could flow
So ebon-black nor ever mountain-bar
Breast night so deep without or moon or star
But that the morning yet again must glow?
God never leaves thee in relentless dark.
Slowly the dawn on unbelieving eyes
Breaketh at last. Day brightens--and oh hark!
A flood of bird-song from the tender skies!
From storm and darkness thou hast found an ark
Shut in with this great marvel of surprise! 

Come blessed Darkness come and bring thy balm
For eyes grown weary of the garish Day!
Come with thy soft slow steps thy garments grey
Thy veiling shadows bearing in thy palm
The poppy-seeds of slumber deep and calm!
Come with thy patient stars whose far-off ray
Steals the hot fever of the soul away
Thy stillness sweeter than a chanted psalm!
O blessed Darkness Day indeed is fair
And Light is dear when Summer days are long
And one by one the harvesters go by
But so is rest sweet and surcease from care
And folded palms and hush of evensong
And all the unfathomed silence of the sky!

Mysterious One inscrutable unknown
A silent Presence with averted face
Whose lineaments no mortal eye can trace
And robes of trailing darkness round thee thrown
Over the midnight hills thou comest alone!
What thou dost bring to me from farthest space
What blessing or what ban what dole what grace
I may not know. Thy secrets are thine own!
Yet asking not for lightest word or sign
To tell me what the hidden fate may be
Without a murmur or a quickened breath
Unshrinkingly I place my hand in thine
And through the shadowy depths go forth with thee
To meet as thou shalt lead or life or death!

Then if I fear not thee thou veild One
Whose face I know not why fear I to meet
Beyond the everlasting hills her feet
Who cometh when all Yesterdays are done?
Shall I who have proved thee good thy sister shun?
O thou To-morrow who dost feel the beat
Of life's long rhythmic pulses strong and sweet
In the far realm that hath no need of sun--
Thou who art fairer than the fair To-day
That I have held so dear and loved so much--
When slow descending from the hills divine
Thou summonest me to join thee on thy way
Let me not shrink nor tremble at thy touch
Nor fear to break thy bread and drink thy wine!

O Earth! art thou not weary of thy graves?
Dear patient Mother Earth upon thy breast
How are they heaped from farthest east to west!
From the dim north where wild the storm-wind raves
O'er the cold surge that chills the shore it laves
To sunlit isles by softest seas caressed
Where roses bloom alway and song-birds nest
How thick they lie--like flecks upon the waves!
There is no mountain-top so far and high
No desert so remote no vale so deep
No spot by man so long untenanted
But the pale moon slow marching up the sky
Sees over some lone grave the shadows creep!
O Earth! art thou not weary of thy dead?

He's called The General from the brazen craft
And dash with which he sneaks a bit of road
And all its fares
challenged or chafed or chaffed
Back-answers of the newest he'll explode
He reins his horses with an air
he treats
With scoffing calm whatever powers there be
He gets it straight puts a bit on and meets
His losses with both lip and pounds, shillings, pence
He arrogates a special taste in short
Is loftily grateful for a flagrant smoke
At all the smarter housemaids winks his court
And taps them for half-crowns
being stoney-broke
Lives lustily
is ever on the make
And hath I fear none other gods but Fake. 

Joy of the Milliner Envy of the Line
Star of the Parks jack-booted sworded helmed
He sits between his holsters solid of spine
Nor as it seems though Westminster were whelmed
With the great globe in earthquake and eclipse
Would he and his charger cease from mounting guard
This Private in the Blues nor would his lips
Move though his gorge with throttled oaths were charred!
He wears his inches weightily as he wears
His old-world armours
and with his port and pride
His sturdy graces and enormous airs
He towers in speech his Colonel countrified
A triumph waxing statelier year by year
Of British blood and bone and beef and beer. 

Far out of bounds he'd figured--in a race
Of West-End traffic pitching to his loss.
But if you'd see him in his proper place
Making the browns for bub and grub and doss
Go East among the merchants and their men
And where the press in noisiest and the tides
Of trade run highest and widest there and then
You shall behold him edging with equal strides
Along the kerb
hawking in either hand
Some artful nothing made of twine and tin
Cardboard and foil and bits of rubber band:
Some penn'orth of wit-in-fact that with a grin
The careful City marvels at and buys
For nurselings in the Suburbs to despise!

His beat lies knee-high through a dust of story--
A dust of terror and torture grief and crime
Ghosts that are England's wonder and shame and glory
Throng where he walks an antic of old time
A sense of long immedicable tears
Were ever with him could his ears but heed
The stern Hic Jacets of our bloodiest years
Are for his reading had he eyes to read
But here where Crookback raged and Cranmer trimmed
And More and Strafford faced the axe's proving
He shows that Crown the desperate Colonel nimmed
Or simply keeps the Country Cousin moving
Or stays such Cockney pencillers as would shame
The wall where some dead Queen hath traced her name.

An ill March noon
the flagstones gray with dust
An all-round east wind volleying straws and grit
St. Martin's Steps where every venomous gust
Lingers to buffet or sneap the passing cit
And in the gutter squelching a rotten boot
Draped in a wrap that modish ten-year syne
Partners obscene with sweat and grease and soot
A horrible hat that once was just as fine
The drunkard's mouth a-wash for something drinkable
The drunkard's eye alert for causal toppers
The drunkard's neck stooped to a lot scarce thinkable
A living crawling blazoning of Hot-Coppers
He trails his mildews towards a Kingdom-Come
Compact of sausage-and-mash and two-o'rum!

'Liza's old man's perhaps a little shady
'Liza's old woman's prone to booze and cring
But 'Liza deems herself a perfect lady
And proves it in her feathers and her fringe.
For 'Liza has a bloke her heart to cheer
With pearlies and a barrer and a jack
So all the vegetables of the year
Are duly represented on her back.
Her boots are sacrifices to her hats
Which knock you speechless--like a load of bricks!
Her summer velvets dazzle Wanstead Flats
And cost at times a good eighteen-and-six.
Withal outside the gay and giddy whirl
'Liza's a stupid straight hard-working girl.

Time the old humourist has a trick to-day
Of moving landmarks and of levelling down
Till into Town the Suburbs edge their way
And in the Suburbs you may scent the Town.
With Mount Street thus approaching Muswell Hill
And Clapham Common marching with the Mile
You get a Hammersmith that fills the bill
A Hampstead with a serious sense of style.
So this fair creature pictured in The Row
As one of that "gay adulterous world" whose round
Is by the Serpentine as well would show
And might I deem as readily be found
On Streatham's Hill or Wimbledon's or where
Brixtonian kitchens lard the late-dining air. 

So went our boys when Edward Sixth the King
Chartered Christ's Hospital and died. And so
Full fifteen generations in a string
Of heirs to his bequest have had to go.
Thus Camden showed and Barnes and Stillingfleet
And Richardson that bade our Lovelace be
Thus to his Genevieve young S. T. C.
With thousands else that wandering up and down
Quaint privileged liked and reputed well
Made the great School a part of London Town
Patent as Paul's and vital as Bow Bell:
The old School nearing exile day by day
To certain clay-lands somewhere Horsham way.

Army Reserve
a worshipper of Bobs
With whom he stripped the smock from Candahar
Neat as his mount that neatest among cobs
Whenever pageants pass or meetings are
He moves conspicuous vigilant severe
With his Light Cavalry hand and seat and look
A living type of Order in whose sphere
Is room for neither Hooligan nor Hook.
For in his shadow wheresoe'er he ride
Paces all eye and hardihood and grip
The dreaded Crusher might in his every stride
And right materialized girt at his hip
And they that shake to see these twain go by
Feel that the Tec that plain-clothes Terror is nigh.

Take any station pavement circus corner
Where men their styles of print may call or choose
And there--ten times more on it than Jack Horner--
There you shall find him swathed in sheets of news.
Nothing can stay the placing of his wares--
Not 'bus nor cab nor dray! The very Slop
That imp of power is powerless! Ever he dares
And daring lands his public neck and crop.
Even the many-tortured London ear
The much-enduring loathes his Speeshul yell
His shriek of Winnur! But his dart and leer
And poise are irresistible. Pall Mall
Joys in him and Mile End
for his vocation
Is to purvey the stuff of conversation. 

Who says Drum-Major says a man of mould
Shaking the meek earth with tremendous tread
And pacing still a triumph to behold
Of his own spine at least two yards ahead!
Attorney grocer surgeon broker duke--
His calling may be anything who comes
Into a room his presence a rebuke
To the dejected as the pipes and drums
Inspired his port!--who mounts his office stairs
As though he led great armies to the fight!
His bulk itself's pure genius and he wears
His avoirdupois with so much fire and spright
That though the creature stands but five feet five
You take him for the tallest He alive. 

There's never a delicate nurseling of the year
But our huge London hails it and delights
To wear it on her breast or at her ear
Her days to colour and make sweet her nights.
Crocus and daffodil and violet
Pink primrose valley-lily close-carnation
Red rose and white rose wall-flower mignonette
The daisies all--these be her recreation
Her gaudies these! And forth from Drury Lane
Trapesing in any of her whirl of weathers
Her flower-girls foot it honest and hoarse and vain
All boot and little shawl and wilted feathers:
Of populous corners right advantage taking
And where they squat endlessly posy-making. 

Though if you ask her name she says "Elise"
Being plain Elizabeth e'en let it pass
And own that if her aspirates take their ease
She ever makes a point in washing glass
Handling the engine turning taps for tots
And countering change and scorning what men say
Of posing as a dove among the pots
Nor often gives her dignity away.
Her head's a work of art and if her eyes
Be tired and ignorant she has a waist
Cheaply the Mode she shadows
and she tries
From penny novels to amend her taste
And having mopped the zinc for certain years
And faced the gas she fades and disappears.

The Artist muses at his ease
Contented that his work is done
And smiling--smiling!--as he sees
His crowd collecting one by one.
Alas! his travail's but begun!
None none can keep the years in line
And what to Ninety-Eight is fun
May raise the gorge of Ninety-Nine!

The marks of death were on him and he bore
In every feature that sharp clear cold look
Which is not of this world
his weak frame shook
Yet not with terror shook
for oft before
He had sought death amid the battle's roar
Nor shrank he now when in his chamber lone
Death visible death for three long moons had shown
His dart upraised but struck not
still he wore
His brow though sad undaunted
for he knew
This was his last great fight whose promise high
Was endless glory to the faithful few
Whose courage can endure to victory.
And so he conquered and a soldier true
And gallant as he lived did Gordon die.

Spirit of evil with which earth is rife
Revenge revenge! thee all abjure and blame
Yet when their hour is come invoke thy name
Base men for thee in secret bare the knife
The brave partake the peril and the strife
The weak the sword more sure of justice claim
The strong when they have blasted power and fame
Give to their foe in scorn the curse of life
The keenest bitterest vengeance--
for these all
Are only shapes thou takest to goad the mind
Turning the heart's pure generous blood to gall
And thus revenge thou stalkst through all the kind
Till mighty nations madden at thy call
And earth is waste and seas incarnadined.

I've seen my day before its noon decline
And dark is still the future nor alas!
Can hope with all the magic of her glass
Irradiate the deep gloom which fate malign
Has gathered round
yet will I not repine
For though the courage that can do and dare
Be brightest glory unsubdued to bear
That calmer better virtue may be mine
For this is of the mind
to slay be slain
Asks but a moment's energies and fame
First wakens and then keeps alive the flame
But patience must itself itself sustain
And must itself reward nor hope to find
The praise or the compassion of mankind. 

Whether thy locks in natural beauty stray
Clustering like woodbind wild or haply bound
Like ivy wreath thy polished brows around
Whether within thine eyes' blue mirror play
Mirth's arrowy beams or love's more softened ray
Whether to the gay viol's pleasant sound
Thou minglest in the dance's airy round
Thy light feet twinkling like the darts of day
Or whether over the graceful harp thy frame
More graceful yet with eyes up-raised thou bendest
And with its tones thy own far sweeter blendest
Still thou art loveliest varying yet the same
Still over my soul thine absolute sway extendest
And from all other loves thy heart defendest. 

There is a virtue which to Fortune's height
Follows us not but in the vale below
Where dwell the ills of life disease and woe
Holds on its steady course serenely bright.
So some lone star whose softly beaming light
We mark not in the blaze of solar day
Comes forth with pure and ever constant ray
That makes even beautiful the gloom of night.
Thou art that star so lovely and so lone
That virtue of distress--Fidelity!
And thou when every joy and hope are flown
Clingst to the relics of humanity
Making with all its sorrows life still dear
And death with all its terrors void of fear.

When in the dark we slowly drift away
O'er unknown seas and busy thoughts at last
Are quieted and all the cares are past
That bandit-like infest the realms of day--
To what pale country does the spirit stray?
Within what wan-lit land what region vast
Does this strange traveller journey far and fast
Till in the east the day breaks cold and gray?
Ah tell me when we slumber whither goes
And whence at waking comes the silent guest
Whose face no man hath seen whom no man knows--
The dim familiar of each human breast?
Behold at length when day indeed shall close
Will this uneasy traveller too have rest?

Love touch my mouth with kisses as with fire
Lean hard against my breast that I may feel
From thy warm heart its influence subtly steal
Through all my veins
with overmuch desire
My spirit fainteth and my lips suspire
Swiftly with heavy breathings
round me reel
The shadows of the dark and downward wheel
The dim far stars from heaven
draw me nigher
Unto thy bosom love for all my sense
Of earth and time fleets from me... Dayward flows
The stream of night and into yon immense
Blue void the slow moon fails
hold me more close
Lest from thine arms my spirit hasten hence
Going that viewless way no mortal knows. 

Go from me now
I will no longer feel
Your burning kisses on my fevered lips
You shall not hold one moment e'en the tips
Of my shut fingers though you cry and kneel.
My face aches and my tired senses reel
Through all my veins a drowsy poison slips
My sight grows dim with gradual eclipse
For slumber on mine eyes has set his seal.
Get hence
I will no more to-night
the bars
Of love are placed against you now: go while
I hate you not my Roman
the sick stars
Wax faint and pallid in the dawn's red smile
Look! I am quenched in sleep as nenuphars
Are quenched in the broad bosom of the Nile.

Yea rock him gently in thine arms O Deep!
No nobler heart was ever hushed to rest
Upon the chill soft pillow of thy breast--
No truer eyes didst thou e'er kiss to sleep.
While o'er his couch the wrathful billows leap
And mighty winds roar from the darkened west
Still may his head on thy cool weeds be pressed
Far down where thou dost endless silence keep.
Oh when slow moving through thy spaces dim
Some scaly monster seeks its coral cave
And pausing o'er the sleeper stares with grim
Dull eyes a moment downwards through the wave
Then let thy pale green shadows curtain him
And swaying sea-flowers hide his lonely grave.

Blown through the gusty spaces of the night
The pale clouds fleet like ghosts along the sky
A fitful wind goes moaning feebly by
And the faint moon poised o'er the craggy height
Dies in its own uncertain misty light.
Within the hills the water-springs are dry
The herbs are withered
and the sand-wastes lie
Dim wide and lonely to the weary sight.
Behold! her awful vigil she will keep
Through the wan night as through the burning day
Though all the world should sleep she will not sleep
But watch wild-eyed and fierce to scare away
As round and round with hoarse low cries they creep
From her dead sons the hungry beasts of prey.

My love is like the vastness of the sea
As deep as life as high as heaven is high
And pure as an unclouded summer sky
And as enduring as eternity.
My love is that which was and is to be
Which knows no change and which can never die
Which all the wealth of Ophir could not buy
Yet free to one as light and air is free.
O Love thou putt'st to shame the nightingale
Thy lips like bees are fraught with hydromel
Than lilies are thy bosom is more pale
Thy words are sweeter than a silver bell:
Yet time from thee thy beauties shall estrange:
But this my Love can never suffer change.

Lo! in the valley Love the galingale
Bends to the blast beside the river-shore
And autumn pipes forever more and more
While summer's slender voices faint and fail.
Lo! now the liveried leaf grows sere and pale--
A phantom of the glory gone before--
And in the woodland walks we knew of yore
Long since the songster ceased his tuneful tale.
Love let us love
life's summer waneth soon
Brief is the splendour of its fervent day:
For every blood-red rose of balmy June
Hath burst a tender bud of early May.
I unto thee would consecrate a boon
O shall we love or shall we still delay?

If music and sweet poetry agree
As they must needs (the sister and the brother)
Then must the love be great 'twixt thee and me
Because thou lov'st the one and I the other.
Dowland to thee is dear whose heavenly touch
Upon the lute doth ravish human sense
Spenser to me whose deep conceit is such
As passing all conceit needs no defence.
Thou lov'st to hear the sweet melodious sound
That Phbus' lute (the queen of music makes
And I in deep delight am chiefly drowned
Whenas himself to singing he betakes.
One god is god of both (as poets feign)
One knight loves both and both in thee remain.

Chaucer is dead
and Gower lies in grave
The Earl of Surrey long ago is gone
Sir Philip Sidney's soul the heavens have
George Gascoigne him before was tombed in stone.
Yet though their bodies lie full low in ground
As every thing must die that erst was born
Their living fame no fortune can confound
Nor ever shall their labors be forlorn.
And you that discommend sweet poetry
(So that the subject of the same be good)
Here may you see your fond simplicity
Sith kings have favored it of royal blood.
The King of Scots (now living) is a poet
As his Lepanto and his Furies show it.

Sighing and sadly sitting by my love
He asked the cause of my heart's sorrowing
Conjuring me by heaven's eternal King
To tell the cause which me so much did move.
Compelled (quoth I) to thee will I confess
Love is the cause and only love it is
That doth deprive me of my heavenly bliss.
Love is the pain that doth my heart oppress.
And what is she (quoth he) whom thou dost love?
Look in this glass (quoth I) there shalt thou see
The perfect form of my felicity.
When thinking that it would strange magic prove
He opened it and taking off the cover
He straight perceived himself to be my lover.

Cherry-lipped Adonis in his snowy shape
Might not compare with his pure ivory white
On whose fair front a poet's pen might write
Whose rosiate red excels the crimson grape.
His love-enticing delicate soft limbs
Are rarely framed t' intrap poor gazing eyes
His cheeks the lily and carnation dyes
With lovely tincture which Apollo's dims.
His lips ripe strawberries in nectar wet
His mouth a hive his tongue a honeycomb
Where muses (like bees) make their mansion.
His teeth pure pearl in blushing coral set.
Oh how can such a body sin-procuring
Be slow to love and quick to hate enduring?

There is a silence where hath been no sound
There is a silence where no sound may be
In the cold grave--under the deep deep sea
Or in the wide desert where no life is found
Which hath been mute and still must sleep profound
No voice is hushed--no life treads silently
But clouds and cloudy shadows wander free
That never spoke over the idle ground:
But in green ruins in the desolate walls
Of antique palaces where Man hath been
Thoughl the dun fox or wild hyaena calls
And owls that flit continually between
Shriek to the echo and the low winds moan
There the true Silence is self-conscious and alone.

It is not death that sometime in a sigh
This eloquent breath shall take its speechless flight
That sometime these bright stars that now reply
In sunlight to the sun shall set in night
That this warm conscious flesh shall perish quite
And all life's ruddy springs forget to flow
That thoughts shall cease and the immortal sprite
Be lapped in alien clay and laid below
It is not death to know this--but to know
That pious thoughts which visit at new graves
In tender pilgrimage will cease to go
So duly and so oft--and when grass waves
Over the past-away there may be then
No resurrection in the minds of men. 

The world is with me and its many cares
Its woes--its wants--the anxious hopes and fears
That wait on all terrestrial affairs--
The shades of former and of future years--
Forboding fancies and prophetic tears
Quelling a spirit that was once elate.
Heavens! what a wilderness the world appears
Where youth and mirth and health are out of date
But no--a laugh of innocence and joy
Resounds like music of the fairy race
And gladly turning from the world's annoy
I gaze upon a little radiant face
And bless internally the merry boy
Who "makes a son-shine in a shady place."

She was a woman peerless in her station
With household virtues wedded to her name
Spotless in linen grass-bleached in her fame
And pure and clear-starched in her conversation
Thence in my Castle of Imagination
She dwells for evermore the dainty dame
To keep all airy draperies from shame
And all dream furnitures in preservation:
There walketh she with keys quite silver bright
In perfect hose and shoes of seemly black
Apron and stomacher of lily white
And decent order follows in her track:
The burnished plate grows lustrous in her sight
And polished floors and tables shine her back.

I had a gig-horse and I called him Pleasure
Because on Sundays for a little jaunt
He was so fast and showy quite a treasure
Although he sometimes kicked and shied aslant.
I had a chaise and christened it Enjoyment
With yellow body and the wheels of red
Because it was only used for one employment
Namely to go wherever Pleasure led.
I had a wife her nickname was Delight:
A son called Frolic who was never still:
Alas! how often dark succeeds to bright!
Delight was thrown and Frolic had a spill
Enjoyment was upset and shattered quite
And Pleasure fell a splitter on Paine's Hill.

Along the Woodford road there comes a noise
Of wheels and Mr. Rounding's neat post-chaise
Struggles along drawn by a pair of bays
With Reverend Mr. Crow and six small boys
Who ever and anon declare their joys
With trumping horns and juvenile huzzas
At going home to spend their Christmas days
And changing learning's pains for pleasure's toys.
Six weeks elapse and down the Woodford way
A heavy coach drags six more heavy souls
But no glad urchins shout no trumpets bray
The carriage makes a halt the gate-bell tolls
And little boys walk in as dull and mum
As six new scholars to the Deaf and Dumb!
When I do count the clock that tells the time
And see the brave day sunk in hideous night
When I behold the violet past prime
And sable curls all silver'd o'er with white
When lofty trees I see barren of leaves
Which erst from heat did canopy the herd
And summer's green all girded up in sheaves
Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard
Then of thy beauty do I question make
That thou among the wastes of time must go
Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake
And die as fast as they see others grow
And nothing 'gainst Time's scythe can make defence
Save breed to brave him when he takes thee hence.

Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May
And summer's lease hath all too short a date:
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines
And often is his gold complexion dimm'd
And every fair from fair sometime declines
By chance or nature's changing course untrimm'd
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou owest
Nor shall Death brag thou wander'st in his shade
When in eternal lines to time thou growest
So long as men can breathe or eyes can see
So long lives this and this gives life to thee.

When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes
I all alone beweep my outcast state
And trouble deaf Heaven with my bootless cries
And look upon myself and curse my fate
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope
Featur'd like him like him with friends possess'd
Desiring this man's art and that man's scope
With what I most enjoy contented least:
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising
Haply I think on thee--and then my state
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven's gate
For thy sweet love remember'd such wealth brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings'.

When to the sessions of sweet silent thought
I summon up remembrance of things past
I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought
And with old woes new wail my dear time's waste:
Then can I drown an eye unus'd to flow
For precious friends hid in death's dateless night
And weep afresh love's long-since cancell'd woe
And moan the expense of many a vanish'd sight.
Then can I grieve at grievances foregone
And heavily from woe to woe tell o'er
The sad account of fore-bemoaned moan
Which I new pay as if not paid before.
But if the while I think on thee dear friend
All losses are restor'd and sorrows end. 

Not marble nor the gilded monuments
Of princes shall outlive this powerful rhyme
But you shall shine more bright in these contents
Than unswept stone besmear'd with sluttish time.
When wasteful war shall statues overturn
And broils root out the work of masonry
Nor Mars his sword nor war's quick fire shall burn
The living record of your memory.
'Gainst death and all oblivious enmity
Shall you pace forth
your praise shall still find room
Even in the eyes of all posterity
That wear this world out to the ending doom.
So till the judgment that yourself arise
You live in this and dwell in lovers' eyes. 

That time of year thou mayst in me behold
When yellow leaves or none or few do hang
Upon those boughs which shake against the cold
Bare ruined choirs where late the sweet birds sang.
In me thou see'st the twilight of such day
As after sunset fadeth from the west
Which by and by black night doth take away
Death's second self that seals up all in rest.
In me thou see'st the glowing of such fire
That on the ashes of his youth doth lie
As the deathbed whereon it must expire
Consumed by that which it was nourished by.
This thou perceiv'st which makes thy love more strong
To love that well which thou must leave ere long. 

Farewell! thou art too dear for my possessing
And like enough thou know'st thy estimate:
The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting?
And for that riches where is my deserving?
The cause of this fair gift in me is wanting
And so my patent back again is swerving.
Thyself thou gavest thy own worth then not knowing
Or me to whom thou gavest it else mistaking
So thy great gift upon misprision growing
Comes home again on better judgment making.
Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter
In sleep a king but waking no such matter. 

They that have power to hurt and will do none
That do not do the thing they most do show
Who moving others are themselves as stone
Unmoved cold and to temptation slow
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces
And husband nature's riches from expense
They are the lords and owners of their faces
Others but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet
Though to itself it only live and die
But if that flower with base infection meet
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds. 

The forward violet thus did I chide:
Sweet thief whence didst thou steal thy sweet that smells
If not from my love's breath? The purple pride
Which on thy soft cheek for complexion dwells
In my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
The lily I condemnd for thy hand
And buds of marjoram had stol'n thy hair
The roses fearfully on thorns did stand
One blushing shame another white despair
A third nor red nor white had stol'n of both
And to his robbery had annex'd thy breath
But for his theft in pride of all his growth
A vengeful canker eat him up to death.
More flowers I noted yet I none could see
But sweet or colour it had stol'n from thee. 

Th' expense of spirit in a waste of shame
Is lust in action
and till action lust
Is perjur'd murderous bloody full of blame
Savage extreme rude cruel not to trust
Enjoy'd no sooner but despised straight
Past reason hunted
and no sooner had
Past reason hated as a swallow'd bait
On purpose laid to make the taker mad:
Mad in pursuit and in possession so
Had having and in quest to have extreme
A bliss in proof--and prov'd a very woe
Before a joy propos'd
behind a dream:
All this the world well knows
yet none knows well
To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell. 

My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun
Coral is far more red than her lips' red:
If snow be white why then her breasts are dun
If hairs be wires black wires grow on her head.
I have seen roses damask'd red and white
But no such roses see I in her cheeks
And in some perfumes is there more delight
Than in the breath that from my mistress reeks.
I love to hear her speak--yet well I know
That music hath a far more pleasing sound
I grant I never saw a goddess go
My mistress when she walks treads on the ground
And yet by heaven I think my love as rare
As any she belied with false compare.

Two loves I have of comfort and despair
Which like two spirits do suggest me still:
The better angel is a man right fair
The worser spirit a woman colour'd ill.
To win me soon to hell my female evil
Tempteth my better angel from my side
And would corrupt my saint to be a devil
Wooing his purity with her foul pride.
And whether that my angel be turn'd fiend
Suspect I may yet not directly tell
But being both from me both to each friend
I guess one angel in another's hell:
Yet this shall I ne'er know but live in doubt
Till my bad angel fire my good one out. 

Those lips that love's own hand did make
Breathed forth the sound that said "I hate"
To me that languished for her sake.
But when she saw my woeful state
Straight in her heart did mercy come
Chiding that tongue that ever sweet
Was used in giving gentle doom
And taught it thus anew to greet.
"I hate" she altered with an end
That followed it as gentle day
Doth follow night who like a fiend
From heaven to hell is flown away.
"I hate" from hate away she threw.
And saved my life saying "not you."

Children that lay their pretty garlands by
So piteously yet with a humble mind
Sailors who when their ship rocks in the wind
Cast out her freight with half-averted eye
Riches for life exchanging solemnly
Lest they should never gain the wished-for shore
Thus we O Father standing Thee before
Do lay down at Thy feet without a sigh
Each after each our precious things and rare
Our dear heart-jewels and our garlands fair.
Perhaps Thou knewest that the flowers would die
And the long-voyaged boards be found but dust:
So took'st them while unchanged. To Thee we trust
For incorruptible treasure: Thou art just.

I never lay me down to sleep at night
But in my heart I sing that little song:
The angels hear it as a pitying throng
They touch my burning lids with fingers bright
As moonbeams pale impalpable and light:
And when my daily pious tasks are done
And all my patient prayers said one by one
God hears it. Seems it sinful in His sight
That round my slow burnt-offering of quenched will
One quivering human sigh creeps wind-like still?
That when my orisons celestial fail
Rises one note of natural human wail?
Dear lord spouse hero martyr saint! erelong
I trust God will forgive my singing that poor song.

A year ago I bade my little son
Bear upon pilgrimage a heavy load
Of alms he cried half-fainting on the road
"Mother O mother would the day were done!"
Him I reproved with tears and said "Go on!
Nor pause nor murmur till thy task be o'er."--
Would not God say to me the same and more?
I will not sing that song. Thou dearest one
Husband--no brother!--stretch thy steadfast hand
And let mine grasp it. Now I also stand
My woman weakness nerved to strength like thine
We'll quaff life's aloe-cup as if 't were wine
Each to the other
journeying on apart
Till at heaven's golden doors we two leap heart to heart. 

There was a marriage-table where One sate
Haply unnoticed till they craved His aid:
Thenceforward does it seem that He has made
All virtuous marriage-tables consecrate:
And so at this where without pomp or state
We sit and only say or mute are fain
To wish the simple words "God bless these twain!"
I think that He who "in the midst" doth wait
Oft-times would not abjure our prayerful cheer
But as at Cana list with gracious ear
To us beseeching that the Love divine
May ever at their household table sit
Make all His servants who encompass it
And change life's bitterest waters into wine.

My white archangel with thy steadfast eyes
Beholding all this empty ghost-filled room
Thy clasped hands resting on the sword of doom
Thy firm close lips not made for human sighs
Or smiles or kisses sweet or bitter cries
But for divine exhorting holy song
And righteous counsel bold from seraph tongue.
Beautiful angel strong as thou art wise
Would that the sight of thee made wise and strong!
Would that this sheathed sword of thine which lies
Stonily idle could gleam out among
The spiritual hosts of enemies
That tempting shriek--"Requite thou wrong with wrong."
Lama Sabachthani--How long how long.

Michael the leader of the hosts of God
Who warred with Satan for the body of him
Whom living God had loved--If cherubim
With cherubim contended for one clod
Of human dust for forty years that trod
The gloomy desert of Heaven's chastisement
Are there not ministering angels sent
To battle with the devils that roam abroad
Clutching our living souls? "The living still
The living they shall praise Thee!"--Let some great
Invisible spirit enter in and fill
The howling chambers of hearts desolate
With looks like thine O Michael strong and wise
My white archangel with the steadfast eyes. 

Regard me well: I am thy love thy love
Thy blessing thy delight thy hope thy peace:
Thy joy above all joys that break and cease
When their full waves in widest circles move:
Thy bird of comfort thine eternal dove
Whom thou didst send out of thy mournful breast
To flutter back and point thee to thy rest:
Thine angel who forgets her crown star-wove
To come to thee with folded woman-hands
Pleading--"look on me Beatrice who stands
Before thee
by the Triune Light divine
Undazzled still beholds thy human face
And is more happy in this happy place
That thou alone art hers and she is thine."

I see thee gliding towards me with slow pace
Across the azure fields of Paradise
Where thine each footstep makes a star arise.
So from this heart's once void but infinite space
Each strange sweet touch of thy celestial grace
In the old mortal life struck out some spark
To light the world though all my heaven lay dark.
O Beatrice cypresses enlace
My laurels: none have grown save tear-bedewed--
Salt tears that sank into the earth unviewed
And sprang up green to form a crown of bays.
Take it! At thy dear feet I lay my all
What men my honors virtues glories call:
I lived loved suffered sung--for thy sole praise.

Soul spirit genius--which thou art--that whence
I know not rose upon this mortal frame
Like the sun o'er the mountains all aflame
Seen large through mists of childish innocence
And year by year with me uptravelling thence
As hour by hour the day-star madest aspire
My nature interpenetrate with fire
It felt but understood not--strong intense
Wisdom with folly mixed and gold with clay
--
Soul thou hast journeyed with me all this way.
Oft hidden and o'erclouded oft arrayed
In scorching splendors that my earth-life burned
Yet ever unto thee my true life turned
For dim or clear 't was thou my daylight made.

Soul dwelling oft in God's infinitude
And sometimes seeming no more part of me--
This me worms' heritage--than that sun can be
Part of the earth he has with warmth imbued--
Whence camest thou? whither goest thou? I subdued
With awe of mine own being--thus sit still
Dumb on the summit of this lonely hill
Whose dry November-grasses dew-bestrewed
Mirror a million suns--That sun so bright
Passes as thou must pass Soul into night:
Art thou afraid who solitary hast trod
A path I know not from a source to a bourne
Both which I know not? fear'st thou to return
Alone even as thou camest alone to God? 

I shall not paint them. God them sees and I:
No other can nor need. They have no form
I may not close with human kisses warm
Their eyes which shine afar or from on high
But never will shine nearer till I die.
How long how long! See I am growing old
I have quite ceased to note in my hair's fold
The silver threads that there in ambush lie
Some angel faces bent from heaven would pine
To trace the sharp lines graven upon mine
What matter? in the wrinkles ploughed by care
Let age tread after sowing immortal seeds
All this life's harvest yielded wheat or weeds
Is reaped methinks: at my little field lies bare.

But in the night time 'twixt it and the stars
The angel faces still come glimmering by
No death-pale shadow no averted eye
Marking the inevitable doom that bars
Me from them. Not a cloud their aspect mars
And my sick spirit walks with them hand in hand
By the cool waters of a pleasant land:
Sings with them o'er again without its jars
The psalm of life that ceased as one by one
Their voices dropping off left mine alone
With dull monotonous wail to grieve the air.
O solitary love that art so strong
I think God will have pity on thee erelong
And take thee where thou'lt find those angel faces fair.

From the near city comes the clang of bells:
Their hundred jarring diverse tones combine
In one faint misty harmony as fine
As the soft note yon winter robin swells.--
What if to Thee in Thine Infinity
These multiform and many-colored creeds
Seem but the robe man wraps as masquers' weeds
Round the one living truth Thou givest him--Thee?
What if these varied forms that worship prove
Being heart-worship reach Thy perfect ear
But as a monotone complete and clear
Of which the music is through Christ's name Love?
Forever rising in sublime increase
To "Glory in the Highest--on earth peace?" 

Richard the Lion-hearted crowned serene
With the true royalty of perfect man
Seated in stone above the praise or ban
Of these mixed crowds who come gaping lean
As if to see what the word "king" might mean
In those old times. Behold! what need that rim
Of crown 'gainst this blue sky to signal him
A monarch of the monarchs that have been
And perhaps are not?--Read his destinies
In the full brow o'er-arching kingly eyes
In the strong hands grasping both rein and sword
In the close mouth so sternly beautiful:--
Surely a man who his own spirit can rule
Lord of himself therefore his brethren's lord.

"O Richard O mon roi." So minstrels sighed.
The many-centuried voice dies fast away
Amidst the turmoil of our modern day.
How know we but these green-wreathed legends hide
An ugly truth that never could abide
In this our living world's far purer air?--
Nevertheless O statue rest thou there
Our Richard of all chivalry the pride
Or if not the true Richard still a type
Of the old regal glory fallen o'er-ripe
And giving place to better blossoming:
Stand--imaging the grand heroic days
And let our little children come and gaze
Whispering with innocent awe--"This was a King." 

Ghosts of dead soldiers in the battle slain
Ghosts of dead heroes dying nobler far
In the long patience of inglorious war
Of famine cold heat pestilence and pain--
All ye whose loss makes our victorious gain--
This quiet night as sounds the cannon's tongue
Do ye look down the trembling stars among
Viewing our peace and war with like disdain?
Or wiser grown since reaching those new spheres
Smile ye on those poor bones ye sowed as seed
For this our harvest nor regret the deed?--
Yet lift one cry with us to Heavenly ears--
"Strike with Thy bolt the next red flag unfurled
And make all wars to cease throughout the world." 

In face of a great sorrow like to death
How do we wrestle night and day with tears
How do we fast and pray
how small appears
The outside world while hanging on some breath
Of fragile hope the chamber where we lie
Includes all space.--But if sudden at last
The blow falls
or by incredulity
Fond led we--never having one thought cast
Towards years where "the child" was not--see it die
And with it all our future all our past--
We just look round us with a dull surprise:
For lesser pangs we had filled earth with cries
Of wild and angry grief that would be heard:--
But when the heart is broken--not a word. 

This is a day the Lord hath made."--Thus spake
The good religious heart unstained unworn
Watching the golden glory of the morn.--
Since on each happy day that came to break
Like sunlight o'er this silent life of mine
Yea on each beauteous morning I saw shine
I have remembered these your words rejoiced
And been glad in it. So o'er many-voiced
Tumultuous harmonies of tropic seas
Which chant an everlasting farewell grand
Between ourselves and you and the old land
Receive this token: many words chance-sown
May oftentimes have taken root and grown
To bear food fruit perennially like these. 

If I might choose where my tired limbs shall lie
When my task here is done the oak's green crest
Shall rise above my grave--a little mound
Raised in some cheerful village cemetery.
And I could wish that with unceasing sound
A lonely mountain rill was murmuring by
In music through the long soft twilight hours.
And let the hand of her whom I love best
Plant round the bright green grave those fragrant flowers
In whose deep bells the wild-bee loves to rest
And should the robin from some neighbouring tree
Pour his enchanted song-oh softly tread!
For sure if aught of earth can soothe the dead
He still must love that pensive melody. 

Here the white-ray'd anemone is born
Wood-sorrel and the varnish'd buttercup
And primrose in its purfled green swathed up
Pallid and sweet round every budding thorn
Gray ash and beech with rusty leaves outworn.
Here too the darting linnet hath her nest
In the blue-lustred holly never shorn
Whose partner cheers her little brooding breast
Piping from some near bough. O simple song!
O cistern deep of that harmonious rillet
And these fair juicy stems that climb and throng
The vernal world and unexhausted seas
Of flowing life and soul that asks to fill it
Each and all of these--and more and more than these! 

O English mother in the ruddy glow
Hugging your baby closer when outside
You see the silent soft and cruel snow
Falling again and think what ills betide
Unshelter'd creatures--your sad thoughts may go
Where War and Winter now two spectre-wolves
Hunt in the freezing vapour that involves
Those Asian peaks of ice and gulfs below.
Does this young Soldier heed the snow that fills
His mouth and open eyes? or mind in truth
To-night his mother's parting syllables?
Ha! is't a red coat?--Merely blood. Keep ruth
For others
this is but an Afghan youth
Shot by the stranger on his native hills.

I'm glad I am alive to see and feel
The full deliciousness of this bright day
That's like a heart with nothing to conceal
The young leaves scarcely trembling
the blue-grey
Rimming the cloudless ether far away
Brairds hedges shadows
mountains that reveal
Soft sapphire
this great floor of polished steel
Spread out amidst the landmarks of the bay.
I stoop in sunshine to our circling net
From the black gunwale
tend these milky kine
Up their rough path
sit by yon cottage-door
Plying the diligent thread
take wings and soar--
O hark how with the season's laureate
Joy culminates in song! If such a song were mine! 

In Sussex here by shingle and by sand
Flat fields and farmsteads in their wind-blown trees
The shallow tide-wave courses to the land
And all along the down a fringe one sees
Of ducal woods. That 'dim discovered spire'
Is Chichester where Collins felt a fire
Touch his sad lips
thatched Felpham roofs are these
Where happy Blake found heaven more close at hand.
Goodwood and Arundel possess their lords
Successive in the towers and groves which stay
These two poor men by some right of their own
Possessed the earth and sea the sun and moon
The inner sweet of life
and put in words
A personal force that doth not pass away. 

That which he did not feel he would not sing
What most he felt religion it was to hide
In a dumb darkling grotto where the spring
Of tremulous tears arising unespied
Became a holy well that durst not glide
Into the day with moil or murmuring
Whereto as if to some unlawful thing
He sto]e musing or praying at its side.
But in the sun he sang with cheerful heart
Of coloured season and the whirling sphere
Warm household habitude and human mirth
The whole faith-blooded mystery of earth
And I who had his secret still could hear
The grotto's whisper low through every part. 

Now Autumn's fire burns slowly along the woods
And day by day the dead leaves fall and melt
And night by night the monitory blast
Wails in the key-hold telling how it pass'd
O'er empty fields or upland solitudes
Or grim wide wave
and now the power is felt
Of melancholy tenderer in its moods
Than any joy indulgent summer dealt.
Dear friends together in the glimmering eve
Pensive and glad with tones that recognise
The soft invisible dew in each one's eyes
It may be somewhat thus we shall have leave
To walk with memory--when distant lies
Poor Earth where we were wont to live and grieve.

In the cold moonlight fading silently?
The castle with its stern baronial air
Still frowning as accustomed to defy
The Gothic street where Desmond's chivalry
Dwelt in their pride
the cloistered house of prayer
The gate-towers mouldering where the stream moans by
Now but the owl's lone haunt and fox's lair.
Here once the pride of princely Desmond flushed
His courtiers knelt his mailed squadrons rushed
And saintly brethren poured the choral strain:
Here Beauty bowed her head and smiled and blushed:--
Ah of these glories what doth now remain?
The charnel of yon desecrated fane! 

Broad but not deep along his rock-chafed bed
In many a sparkling eddy winds the flood.
Clasped by a margin of green underwood:
A castled crag with ivy garlanded
Sheer o'er the torrent frowns: above the mead
De Burgho's towers crumbling o'er many a rood
Stand gauntly out in airy solitude
Backed by yon furrowed mountain's tinted head.
Sounds of far people mingling with the fall
Of waters and the busy hum of bees
And larks in air and throstles in the trees
Thrill the moist air with murmurs musical.
While cottage smoke goes drifting on the breeze
And sunny clouds are floating over all. 

Royal and saintly Cashel! I would gaze
Upon the wreck of thy departed powers
Not in the dewy light of matin hours
Nor the meridian pomp of summer's blaze
But at the close of dim autumnal days
When the sun's parting glance through slanting showers
Sheds o'er thy rock-throned battlements and towers
Such awful gleams as brighten o'er Decay's
Prophetic cheek. At such a time methinks
There breathes from thy lone courts and voiceless aisles
A melancholy moral such as sinks
On the lone traveller's heart amid the piles
Of vast Persepolis on her mountain stand
Or Thebes half buried in the desert sand. 

Gazing from each low bulwark of this bridge
How wonderful the contrast! Dark as night
Here amid cliffs and woods with headlong might
The black stream whirls through ferns and drooping sedge
'Neath twisted roots moss-brown and weedy ledge
Gushing. Aloft from yonder birch-clad height
Leaps into air a cataract snow-white
Falling to gulfs obscure. The mountain ridge
Like a gray Warder guardian of the scene
Above the cloven gorge gloomily towers.
O'er the dim woods a gathering tempest lowers
Save where athwart the moist leaves' lucid green
A sunbeam glancing through disparted showers
Sparkles along the rill with diamond sheen.

A sun-burst on the bay! Turn and behold!
The restless waves resplendent in their glory
Sweep glittering past yon purpled promontory
Bright as Apollo's breastplate. Bathed in gold
Yon bastioned islet gleams. Thin mists are rolled
Translucent through each glen. A mantle hoary
Veils those peaked hills shapely as e'er in story
Delphic or Alpine or Vesuvian old
Minstrels have sung. From rock and headland proud
The wild wood spreads its arms around the bay:
The manifold mountain cones now dark now bright
Now seen now lost alternate from rich light
To spectral shade
and each dissolving cloud
Reveals new mountains as it floats away.

Now he recalleth his triumphant days
And fervid throes of equatorial fire
Thrill through his frame till re-aroused desire
(His dream so shows him all his desert ways)
To lap the scented blood of what he slays
Lifts him upon his feet
a lurid ire
Burns in his eyes a shaggy horror stays
His mane erect in aspect grim and dire.
His eyes that are the mirror of his dream
As slowly from their deeps the vision fades
Lose all the light wherewith they blazed and shone
His limbs relent and all the savage gleam
Droops in his mane to ever gloomier shades
And with his sleep his royal mood is gone.

Our fate is round us like a viewless net
Woven of thoughts inheritances deeds
And all the drift of circumstantial weeds
About the shores of being that are set
Imponderable strands no mortal fret
Hath power to fray
the inevitable seeds
Sown by the gods along the cosmic meads
(The gods who sow and never know regret)
Throw round us their invisible intents
Webs knitted in the house of destiny
Enmesh the yearning visage of the soul
And though it cry the sequence of events
The march and order of the mighty whole
Remain unchanged through all eternity. 

Roses I saw and poppies all alight
With colours of the dawn and rainbow hues
Drawn from the sun and all the secret dews
Distilled upon them from the brooding night
And delicate sweet-peas so purely dight
They must have grown where icy winds refuse
To blow or haply where nuns dream and muse
In holy meditation out of sight
Of the rough world
--flowers of moonlight sheen
And golden hearts and velvet pansies turned
The room they stood in to a garden scene
Of loveliness so exquisite I yearned
Through all my soul to be as chastely clean
As these and more my raptured eye discerned.

Lo! all the land is dry and parched with heat
And all the hills are white with withered grass
That hath no touch of greenness
and alas!
See how the lately waving fields of wheat
Droop wearily towards a sure defeat
Before the scorching winds that hourly pass
Over the arid earth
how like a glass
The hot flats shimmer underneath the heat
More strenuous as the stifling weeks increase
Of quenchless and unmitigable rays
That make a terror of the rainless days
And the clear vault of fire that will not cease
To heap with death the long and dusty ways
And burn out life from all the leafless trees.

Green grass green trees and greenest wildernesses
Of cool green ferns
and ah! such long green spaces
Sleeping within the sunlight's warm embraces!
Green-shadowed rills that gurgle through green cresses
And deep green nooks wherein the locust dresses
Her shining wings
green dells and high green places
O'er which bright swarms of sportive insect graces
Flash and are gone and know not what distress is
Green-covered spots
green fields where greenness less is
By reason of the clouds of blowing daisies
That variegate the verdure with their faces
Green arbours where all greenest loveliness is
Like little billowy puffs of maiden tresses!
All these leave on the soul their joyous traces. 

Slow mists were on the ridges all around
And in the kloofs
and on the mountain-side
They moved and swayed a softly flowing tide
That rose against the rocks without a sound
Then circled back upon the lower ground
In folding mazes that would not abide
A moment there but wandered far and wide
In billowy waves no shores were set to bound.
Our raptured souls were in that magic sea
And in those wreaths that journeyed with the wind
Were all our thoughts and in each eager mind
The beauty of that morning mystery
Became an exultation yet to be
Remembered when our mortal eyes are blind.

What witching hours of wild delight are here!
What amplitude of healing airs that sweep
Downward to rouse the dreamers from their sleep
Far in unhealthful valleys! and what cheer
Of gleeful laughter wins the soul from fear
To gambol on these lusty heights like sheep
Glad with the spring! In what still pools and deep
Shine spaces of the crystal atmosphere!
What flowers are here! what scented dells of shade!
What carols make the mornings musical!
What fragrant coils of everlastings glow
In secret spots along each sinuous glade!
What luminous waters rush and pause to fall!
What exultations through the spirit flow!

What blackness reigned before a star was born?
When far across void spaces of the night
The pale diaphanous wonder of the dawn
Rose ghostlike on the unaccustomed sight
Of all the unimaginable eyes
(Strange creatures of the darkness sure were bred)
That stared towards the east in wild surmise
To see the changing colours throb and spread
Innumerable films of rosy fire
Flushing the orient with their glowing tints
Clothing the haggard plains in rich attire
And flashing from great hills of naked flints
Until the gaunt and hungry earth displayed
The jewelled splendour of a queen arrayed. 

Ah God the gulf between us is too dark!
Too deep and dark and terrible to cross
If either now should launch a venturing bark
The surging breakers would assail and toss
And rend it into pieces
it would fare
On these fell waters that between us scream
And fling fierce arms of hatred through the air
Like some frail atom in a demon's dream
Yea it would perish and go down to doom
In ravenous swirls of chaos like a dove
Caught in mid riot of the crash and boom
Of fire and rain and thunder. From above
There where thou livest in pure light divine
Smile and again this whole dark earth will shine. 

O weary watcher waiting at the well!
She cannot come to fill thy aching brain
With thoughts as sweet as nectar in a cell
Or bright as flowers in a dreamy dell
Her individual force is spent
in vain
Thou yearnest for the touch that eases pain
No longer can she weave her mystic spell.
For she is now a part of all around
A spirit and an essence a desire
An inspiration in the heart of things
That murmurs in the harmony of sound
Is white in lilies red in flaming fire
And everlasting in recurring springs.

Yea is it so? will death relieve the soul
Of its most secret and inveterate sin?
Will all be altered when behind the goal
Set to the flesh the spirit shall pass in?
It cannot be
as we have lived we die
Prone in the arms of our unrighteous deeds
At the last moment we shall surely lie
And so pass forth. Nothing there is but breeds
The thing it is
evil shall still be so
Though spirit-borne into ethereal ways
Yet there perchance a stronger will may grow
To do some work which God may bless with praise
As being good
a new environment
Remoulds us till we lose the old intent.

The night-breeze chill blew cold across the mere
The sullen mist slow-creeping up the dale
Enshrouded all the land with clammy veil
The clouds stood still the trees bent low with fear.
At last far in the eastern heavens drear
A little stranger ray trembling and pale
Afeared lest he to find his way should fail
Took courage on the dismal scene to peer.
The trees look up the grasses tip-toe rear
Their tiny heads the clouds mount up and scale
The topmost sky to gain an outlook clear
The waves awake aroused by rising gale
The mist shrinks back and all combine to hail
The dauntless little harbinger of cheer.

What honey in the year's last flowers can hide
These little butterflies may know:
With falling leaves they waver to and fro
Or on the swinging tops of asters ride.
But I am weary of the summer's pride
And sick September's simulated show:
Why do the colder winds delay to blow
And bring the pleasant hours that we abide
To curtained alcove and sweet household talks
Or sweeter silence by our flickering Lars
Returning late from Autumn evening walks
Upon the frosty hills while reddening Mars
Hangs low between the withered mullein stalks
And upward throngs the host of winter stars!

The little creek which yesterday I saw
Ooze through the sedges and each brackish vein
That sluiced the marsh now filled and then again
Sucked dry to glut the sea's unsated maw
All ebb and flow by the same rhythmic law
That times the beat of the Atlantic main--
They also fastened to the swift moon's train
By unseen cords that no less strongly draw.
So poet may thy life's small tributary
Threading some bitter marsh obscure alone
Feel yet one pulse with the broad estuary:
That bears an emperor's fleets through half a zone
May wait upon the same high luminary
And pitch its voice to the same ocean's tone.

He sang one song and died -- no more but that:
A single song and carelessly complete.
He would not bind and thresh his chance-grown wheat
Nor bring his wild fruit to the common vat
To store the acid rinsings thin and flat
Squeezed from the press or trodden under feet.
A few slow beads blood-red and honey-sweet
Oozed from the grape which burst and spilled its fat.
But Time who soonest drops the heaviest things
That weight his pack will carry diamonds long.
So through the poets' orchestra which weaves
One music from a thousand stops and strings
Pierces the note of that immortal song:--
"High over all the lonely bugle grieves."

I met a traveller from an antique land
Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone
Stand in the desert . . . Near them on the sand
Half sunk a shattered visage lies whose frown
And wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command
Tell that its sculptor well those passions read
Which yet survive stamped on these lifeless things
The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed:
And on the pedestal these words appear:
"My name is Ozymandias king of kings:
Look on my works ye Mighty and despair!"
Nothing beside remains. Round the decay
Of that colossal wreck boundless and bare
The lone and level sands stretch far away. 

An old mad blind despised and dying king--
Princes the dregs of their dull race who
Through public scorn--mud from a muddy spring--
Rulers who neither see nor feel nor know
But leech-like to their fainting country cling
Till they drop blind in blood without a blow--
A people starved and stabbed in the untilled field--
An army which liberticide and prey
Makes as a two-edged sword to all who wield--
Golden and sanguine laws which tempt and slay
Religion Christless Godless--a book sealed
A Senate Time's worst statute unrepealed--
Are graves from which a glorious Phantom may
Burst to illumine our tempestuous day.

Lift not the painted veil which those who live
Call Life: though unreal shapes be pictured there
And it but mimic all we would believe
With colours idly spread--behind lurk Fear
And Hope twin Destinies
who ever weave
Their shadows o'er the chasm sightless and drear.
I knew one who had lifted it--he sought
For his lost heart was tender things to love
But found them not alas! nor was there aught
The world contains the which he could approve.
Through the unheeding many he did move
A splendour among shadows a bright blot
Upon this gloomy scene a Spirit that strove
For truth and like the Preacher found it not.

Poet of Nature thou hast wept to know
That things depart which never may return:
Childhood and youth friendship and love's first glow
Have fled like sweet dreams leaving thee to mourn.
These common woes I feel. One loss is mine
Which thou too feel'st yet I alone deplore.
Thou wert as a lone star whose light did shine
On some frail bark in winter's midnight roar:
Thou hast like to a rock-built refuge stood
Above the blind and battling multitude:
In honored poverty thy voice did weave
Songs consecrate to truth and liberty--
Deserting these thou leavest me to grieve
Thus having been that thou shouldst cease to be.

I hated thee fallen tyrant! I did groan
To think that a most unambitious slave
Like thou shouldst dance and revel on the grave
Of Liberty. Thou mightst have built thy throne
Where it had stood even now: thou didst prefer
A frail and bloody pomp which Time has swept
In fragments towards Oblivion. Massacre
For this I prayed would on thy sleep have crept
Treason and Slavery Rapine Fear and Lust
And stifled thee their minister. I know
Too late since thou and France are in the dust
That Virtue owns a more eternal foe
Than Force or Fraud: old Custom legal Crime
And bloody Faith the foulest birth of Time.

After the summer's fierce and thirsty glare
After the falling leaves and falling rain
When harsh winds beat the fields of ripened grain
And autumn's pennons from the branches flare
There comes a stilly season soft and fair
When clouds are lifted winds are hushed again
A phantom Summer hovering without pain
In the veiled radiance of the quiet air
When folding down the line of level seas
A silver mist at noonday faintly broods
And like becalmd ships the yellow trees
Stand islanded in windless solitudes
Each leaf unstirred and parching for the breeze
That hides and lingers northward in the woods. 

Mother of soldiers! once there was a time
When your sons' swords won fame in many a clime
When Europe press'd on France they fought alone
For her and served her better than their own!
Those were the days your exiles made their fame
By gallant deeds which put our age to shame--
Those were the days Cremona city saved
Stood to attest what Irish valor braved!
When England's chivalry sore wounded fled
Before the stormy charge O'Brien led--
When travellers saw in Ypres' coir display'd
The trophies of your song-renown'd brigade!
Mother of soldiers! France was proud to see
Your shamrock then twined with the fleur de lis!

Mother of soldiers! in the cause of Spain
The Moors in Oran's trench by them were slain
For full an hundred years their fatal steel
Has charged beside the lances of Castile.
Carb'ry's Tyrconnell's Breffny's exiled lords
To Spain and glory gave their gallant swords
And Spain of honor jealous gave them place
Before her native sons in glory's race
Her noblest laurels graced your soldiers' head
Her dearest daughters shared your soldiers' bed
In danger's hour she call'd them to the front
And gave to them the praise who bore the brunt:
Mother of soldiers! Spain to-day will be
A willing witness for thy sons and thee!

Mother of soldiers! on the Volga's banks
Your practised leaders form'd the Russian ranks
And fallen Limerick gave the chiefs to lead
The hosts who triumph'd o'er the famous Swede.
That time even Austria gave them host on host
The ruling baton and the perilous post--
Buda Belgrade Prague Deva--every trust
That man could earn and found them bold as just.
Velettri Zorndorff Dantzic still can tell
How Austria's Irish soldiers fought and fell
And how the ruling skill that led them on
To conquer was supplied by your own son!
Mother of soldiers! while these trophies last
You're safe against the sland'rers of the past!

Mother of exiles! from your soil to-day
New myriads are destroy'd or swept away
The crowded graveyards grow no longer green
The daily dead have scanty space I ween
The groaning ships freighted with want and grief
Entomb in every wave a fugitive
The sword no more an Irish weapon is--
The spirit of the land no longer lives
Mother! 'twas kill'd before the famine came--
The stubble was prepared to meet the flame
All manly souls were from their bodies torn
And what avails it if the bodies burn?
Mother of soldiers! may we hope to be
Yet fit to strike for vengeance and for thee! 

Not of the mighty! not of the world's friends
Have I aspired to speak within these leaves
These best befit their joyful kindred pens--
My path lies where a broken people grieves
By the Ohio on the Yuba's banks
As night displays her standard to their eyes
Alone in tears or gather'd in sad ranks
Stirring the brooding air with woful sighs
I see them sit: I hear their mingled speech
Gaelic or Saxon but all from the heart
"Home!" is the word that sways the soul of each--
A word beyond the embellishments of art:
Yet of this theme I feebly seek to sing
And to my banish'd kin a book of "Home" I bring.

I have a sea-going spirit haunts my sleep
Not a sad spirit wearisome to follow
Less like a tenant of the mystic deep
Than the good fairy of the hazel hollow
Full often at the midwatch of the night
I see departing in his silver bark
This spirit steering toward an Eastern light
Calling me to him from the Western dark.
"Spirit!" I ask "say whither bound away?"
"Unto the old Hesperides!" he cries.
"Oh Spirit take me in thy bark I pray."
"For thee I came " he joyfully replies
"Exile! no longer shalt thou absent mourn
For I the Spirit am men call--RETURN."
The soft blue touch of turquoise crystal clear
Curves o'er white hills and rivers' frozen flow
Draped in a virgin robe of dazzling snow
That veils the silent landscape far and near
Swathing the withered herbage brown and sere
And the tall dusky pines that--sweeping low
Their long dark branches--violet shadows throw
Across the stainless marble of the mere.
Hark! through the stillness break the glad sleigh-bells
In silvery cadence through the frosty air
Of happy hearts their merry music tells
--
Of glad home-comings--meetings everywhere
But late we owned the sway of Christmas spells
Now New Year chimes ring out the call to prayer!
The raindrops shimmered down the beamy sky:
"Behold" one sang "how gloriously bright
The golden garments of the King of light!"--
"Golden! O drop a beam is in thine eye!"
A second cries: "His robe's of crimson dye."--
"Ye both are blind" another shouts: "my sight
Is clear and with the purple veil of night
Our monarch is arrayed in mystery.
Thus wrangling shouting hopeless to agree
The drops shot swiftly down the headlong steep
Until at last they fell into the sea.
When they arose from out the cold dark deep
The sun sat throned in stainless majesty
While down a cloud they saw the rainbow sweep.
Last night as one who hears a tragic jest
I woke from dreams half-laughing half in tears
Methought that I had journeyed in the spheres
And stood upon the Planet of the Blest
And found thereon a folk who prayed with zest
Exceeding and through all their painful years
Like strong souls struggled on 'mid hopes and fears
"Where dwell the gods" they said "we shall find rest."
The gods? What gods I thought are those who so
Inspire their worshippers with faith that flowers
Immortal? and who make them keep aglow
The flames forever on their altar-towers?
"Where dwell these gods of yours?" I asked--and lo!
They pointed upwards to this earth of ours! Death
The awful seers of old who wrote in words
Like drops of blood great thoughts that through the night
Of ages burn as eyes of lions light
Deep jungle-dusks
who smote with songs like swords
The soul of man on its most secret chords
And made the heart of him a harp to smite--
Where are they? Where that old man lorn of sight
The king of song among these laurelled lords?
But where are all the ancient singing-spheres
That burst through chaos like the summer's breath
Through ice-bound seas where never seaman steers?
Burnt out. Gone down. No star remembereth
These stars and seers well-silenced through the years--
The songless years of everlasting death. Life
What know we of the dead who say these things
Or of the life in death below the mould--
What of the mystic laws that rule the old
Grey realms beyond our poor imaginings
Where death is life? The bird with spray-wet wings
Knows more of what the deeps beneath him hold.
Let be! Warm hearts shall never wax a-cold
But burn in roses through eternal springs
For all the vanished fruit and flower of Time
Are flower and fruit in worlds we cannot see
And all we see is as a shadow-mime
Of things unseen and Time that comes to flee
Is but the broken echo of a rhyme
In God's great epic of Eternity.

Oh for a breath of spicy woodland air
The healing balsam of the odorous pine
To thrill my nerveless pulse like beaded wine!
Oh for some sylvan Hebe to prepare
For me the nectared cups of mosses rare
Till quickened sense shall catch the merry shine
Of hidden wood nymph's eyes that flash on mine
'Tween waving tresses of the maidenhair!
Oh for a day of freedom in the wood!
To wander with head bared with feet untamed
And cheek incarnadined with bounding blood
Of Nature's code and impulse unashamed.
Oh for a day so breezy free and wild
The dryads haste to claim me as their child!

Columbus came to thee and called the new!
New World to him but thy rich blood bright gold
Lay cold where once the fires manifold
Raged fiercely. New? Primeval forests grew
Had fallen and were coal! Thine eagles flew
Undaunted then as now and where the bold
South Rocky Mountains rise in fold on fold
The Aztec to his God the victim slew.
The tropic verdure of thy far north world
Had passed for ever moon-like fading out.
Sky-piercing mounts have reared them from the seas--
The lost Atlantis has been depth-ward hurled
Since thou wert new!--Old! all thy landmarks shout
And bid us read thy waiting mysteries.

Young laughters and my music! Aye till now
The voice can reach no blending minors near
'Tis the bird's trill because the spring is here
And spring means trilling on a blossomy bough
'Tis the spring joy that has no why or how
But sees the sun and hopes not nor can fear--
Spring is so sweet and spring seems all the year.
Dear voice the first-come birds but trill as thou.
Oh music of my heart be thus for long:
Too soon the spring bird learns the later song
Too soon a sadder sweetness slays content
Too soon! There comes new light on onward day
There comes new perfume o'er a rosier way:
Comes not again the young spring joy that went.

'Tis men who say that through all hurt and pain
The woman's love wife's mother's still will hold
And breathes the sweeter and will more unfold
For winds that tear it and the sorrowful rain.
So in a thousand voices has the strain
Of this dear patient madness been retold
That men call woman's love. Ah! they are bold
Naming for love that grief which does remain.
Love faints that looks on baseness face to face:
Love pardons all
but by the pardonings dies
With a fresh wound of each pierced through the breast.
And there stand pityingly in Love's void place
Kindness of household wont familiar-wise
And faith to Love--faith to our dead at rest.

She has made me wayside posies: here they stand
Bringing fresh memories of where they grew.
As new-come travellers from a world we knew
Wake every while some image of their land
So these whose buds our woodland breezes fanned
Bring to my room the meadow where they blew
The brook-side cliff the elms where wood-doves coo--
And every flower is dearer for her hand.
Oh blossoms of the paths she loves to tread
Some grace of her is in all thoughts you bear:
For in my memories of your homes that were
The old sweet loneliness they kept is fled
And would I think it back I find instead
A presence of my darling mingling there.

'Tis hard that the full summer of our round
Is but the turn where winter's sign-post's writ
That to have reached the best is leaving it
That final loss bears date from having found.
So some proud vessel in a narrow sound
Sails at high water with the fair wind fit
And lo! the ebb along the sandy spit
Lower and lower till she jars aground.
'Tis hard. We are young still but more content
'Tis our ripe flush the heyday of our prime
We learn full breath how rich of the air we are!
But suddenly we note a touch of time
A little fleck that scarcely seems to mar
And we know then that some time since youth went.

The brook leaps riotous with its life just found
That freshets from the mountain rains have fed
Beats at the boulders in its hindered bed
And fills the valley with its triumphing sound.
The strong unthirsty tarn sunk in deep ground
Has never a sigh wherewith its wealth is said
Has no more ripples than the May-flies tread:
Silence of waters is where they abound.
And love whatever love sure makes small boast:
'Tis the new lovers tell in wonder yet.
Oh happy need! Enriched stream's jubilant gush!
But who being spouses well have learned love's most
Being child and mother learned not nor forget
These in their joyfulness feel the tarn's strong hush. 

Birds sing "I love you love" the whole day through
And not another song can they sing right
But singing done with loving's done with quite
The autumn sunders every twittering two.
And I'd not have love make too much ado
With sweet parades of fondness and delight
Lest iterant wont should make caresses trite
Love-names mere cuckoo ousters of the true.
Oh heart can hear heart's sense in senseless nought
And heart that's sure of heart has little speech.
What shall it tell? The other knows its thought.
What shall one doubt or question or beseech
Who is assured and knows and unbesought
Possesses the dear trust that each gives each.

Haply some Rajah first in ages gone
Amid his languid ladies finger'd thee
While a black nightingale sun-swart as he
Sang his one wife love's passionate orison:
Haply thou mayst have pleased old Prester John
Among his pastures when full royally
He sat in tent--grave shepherds at his knee--
While lamps of balsam winked and glimmered on.
What dost thou here? Thy masters are all dead.
My heart is full of ruth and yearning pain
At sight of thee O king that hast a crown
Outlasting theirs and tells of greatness fled
Through cloud-hung nights of unabated rain
And murmur of the dark majestic town.

The tarnished coin preserves its heart of gold
Nor loses worth through honourable use
Thou little book mayst plead no light excuse
For these soiled covers when thy tale is told:
Drear mountains hast thou known and rested cold
In sterile vales where no soft airs induce
The stream night frozen his trampled bed to sluice
Of countless struggling hoofs the silent mould.
There where a hundred camp-fires dying glow
Pale midst the smoke that rises to the stars
And Tumult falls asleep beloved of Mars
Thou hast "unlocked" for me thy "heart" of woe
Or joy for me alone--no thought of wars
Of weary marches of the untiring foe.

Ilion along whose streets in olden days
Shone that divinest form for whose sweet face
A monarch sire with all his kingly race
Were too content to let their temples blaze
Where art thou now?no massive columns raise
Their serried shafts to heaven
we may not trace
Xanthus and Simois nor each storied place
Round which poetic memory fondly plays.
But in the verse of the old man divine
Thy windy towers are built eternally
Nor shall the ages as they ruin by
Print on thy bulwarks one decaying sign
So true is beauty clothed in endless rhyme
So false the sensual monuments of time. 

If gentle stream by promised sacrifice
Of kid or yearling or by scattered flowers
Of votive roses culled from thy thick bowers
Or golden cistus we could thee entice
To be propitious to our love no price
Should save these errant flocks: each nook but ours
Should shed its eglantine in twinkling showers
For tribute from thy wooded paradise.
But not thy flocks nor brier-roses hung
In natural garlands down thy rocky hills
Shall win thee to be ours
more precious far
Than summer blossoms or rich offerings are
We bring thee sweet poetic descants sung
To the wild music of thy tinkling rills.

He went into the woods a laughing boy
Each flower was in his heart
the happy bird
Flitting across the morning sun or heard
From wayside thicket was to him a joy:
The water springs that in their moist employ
Leaped from the banks with many an inward word
Spoke to his soul and every leaf that stirred
Found notice from his quickly-glancing eye.
There wondrous sleep fell on him: many a year
His lids were closed: youth left him and he woke
A careful noter of men's ways: of clear
And lofty spirit: sages when he spoke
Forgot their systems
and the worldly-wise
Shrunk from the gaze of truth with baffled eyes.

Had I the wondrous magic to invest
Ideal forms in colour I would paint
Thee winter first by an ideal saint
Deep in his beads: on his bare ribs should rest
A cross of lichened boughs: and duly pressed
Each morn by horny knees one for each bone
There should be two round hollows in the stone
Whither his bent limbs should be half addressed.
And in the entry of the holy cave
Where the same saint should sit a laughing boy
Naked and all aglow with play and joy
Should peer full slily on that father grave
In the full blessedness of childhood's morn
And laugh his crusty solitude to scorn.

I saw two women weeping by the tomb
Of one new buried in a fair green place
Bowered with shrubs
the eve retained no trace
Of aught that day performedbut the faint gloom
Of dying day was spread upon the sky
The moon was broad and bright above the wood
The distance sounded of a multitude
Music and shout and mingled revelry.
At length came gleaming through the thicket shade
Helmet and casqueand a steel-armaut
d band
Watched round the sepulchre in solemn stand
The night-word passed from man to man conveyed
And I could see those women rise and go
Under the dark trees moving sad and slow. 

They said of her "She never can have felt
The sorrows that our deeper natures feel":
They said "Her placid lips have never spelt
Hard lessons taught by Pain
her eyes reveal
No passionate yearning no perplexed appeal
To other eyes. Love and her heart have dealt
With her but lightly."--When the Pilgrims dwelt
First on these shores lest savage hands should steal
To precious graves with desecrating tread
The burial-field was with the ploughshare crossed
And there the maize her silken tresses tossed.
With thanks those Pilgrims ate their bitter bread
While peaceful harvests hid what they had lost.
--What if her smiles concealed from you her dead? 

Friend of my chamber--O thou spiral shell
That murmurest of the ever-murmuring sea!
Repeating with eternal constancy
Whatever memories the wave can tell
Whatever harmonies may rise and swell
Whatever sadness in the deep may be--
They are the ocean's and desired of thee
Thou treasurest what thou dost love so well.
So all my heart is one voluted fold
Shielding one face and evermore it seems
Upon the threshold of the prying day
Hid in the tangle of reluctant dreams
And in the noontide and the evening grey
Its light illumines secrecies untold.

I am not here alone. A hidden throng
Is round me in the vesper of the sky.
Dead Babylon and Nineveh are nigh
Rome Antioch
the slave who felt the thong
The lord that slew him when the day was long
And the soul heavy with satiety.
And some are near who saw the Christ go by
While Pilate shut aloof at gaze with wrong.
And what are they these ministers surround?
The cliff the sand the island at my feet
Reef-scattered far below all human ken.
Lo! God hath made a mighty angel beat
His wings a benediction in their sound
Above the roof of the most forlorn of men.

It has been said of many they were quite
Prepared to prove (I do not mean in fun)
That white was really black and black was white
But I believe it has not yet been done.
Black (Saxon Blac) in any way to liken
With candour may seem almost out of reach
Yet whiten is in kindred German bleichen
Undoubtedly identical with bleach:
This last verb's cognate adjective is bleak--
Reverting to the Saxon bleak is blk.*
A semivowel is at the last squeak
All that remains such difference wide to make--
The hostile terms of keen antithesis
Brought to an E plus ultra all but kiss!

Mother of the unfortunate mystic form
Who calm immutable like oldest fate
Sittest where through the sombre swinging gate
Moans immemorial life's encircling storm.
My heart sore stricken by grief's leaden arm
Lags like a weary pilgrim knocking late
And sigheth--toward thee staggering with its weight--
Behold Love conquered by thy son the worm!
He stung him mid the roses' purple bloom
The Rose of roses yea a thing so sweet
Haply to stay blind Change's flying feet
And stir with pity the unpitying tomb.
Here take him cold cold heavy and void of breath!
Nor me refuse O Mother almighty death. 

Cleave thou the waves that weltering to and fro
Surge multitudinous. The eternal Powers
Of sun moon stars the air the hurrying hours
The winged winds the still dissolving show
Of clouds in calm or storm for ever flow
Above thee
while the abysmal sea devours
The untold dead insatiate where it lowers
O'er glooms unfathomed limitless below.
No longer on the golden-fretted sands
Where many a shallow tide abortive chafes
Mayst thou delay
life onward sweeping blends
With far-off heaven: the dauntless one who braves
The perilous flood with calm unswerving hands
The elements sustain: cleave thou the waves.

O'er this huge town rife with intestine wars
Whence as from monstrous sacrificial shrines
Pillars of smoke climb heavenward Night inclines
Black brows majestical with glimmering stars.
Her dewy silence soothes life's angry jars:
And like a mother's wan white face who pines
Above her children's turbulent ways so shines
The moon athwart the narrow cloudy bars.
Now toiling multitudes that hustling crush
Each other in the fateful strife for breath
And hounded on by diverse hungers rush
Across the prostrate ones that groan beneath
Are swathed within the universal hush
As life exchanges semblances with death. 

Thou sign-post of the Desert! Obelisk
Once fronting in thy monumental pride
Egypt's fierce sun that blazing far and wide
Sheared her of tree and herb till like a disk
Her waste stretched shadowless and fraught with risk
To those who with their beasts of burden hied
Across the seas of sand until they spied
Thy pillar and their flagging hearts grew brisk:
Now reared beside our Thames so wintry gray
Where blocks of ice drift with the drifting stream
Thou risest o'er the alien prospect! Say
Yon dull blear rayless orb whose lurid gleam
Tinges the snow-draped ships and writhing steam
Is this the sun which fired thine orient day? 

Oh in this dearth and winter of the soul
When even Hope still wont to soar and sing
Droopeth a starveling bird whose downy wing
Stiffens ere dead through the dank drift it fall--
Yea ere Hope perish utterly I call
On thee fond Memory that thou haste and bring
One leaf one blossom from that far-off spring
When love's auroral light lay over all.
Bring but one pansy: haply so the thrill
Of poignant yearning for those glad dead years
May like the gutsy south breathe o'er the chill
Of frozen grief dissolving it in tears
Till numb Hope stirred by that warm dropping rain
Will deem perchance Love's springtide come again. 

Thy wings swoop darkening round my soul Despair!
And on my brain thy shadow seems to brood
And hem me round with stifling solitude
With chasms of vacuous gloom which are thy lair.
No light of human joy no song or prayer
Breaks ever on this chaos all imbrued
With heart's-blood trickling from the multitude
Of sweet hopes slain or agonizing there.
Lo wilt thou yield thyself to grief and roll
Vanquished from thy high seat imperial brain
And abdicating turbulent life's control
Be dragged a captive bound in sorrow's chain?
Nay! though my heart is breaking with its pain
No pain on earth has power to crush my soul. 

Love-cradling Night lit by the lucent moon
Most pitiful and mother-hearted Night!
Blest armistice in life's tumultuous fight
Resolving discords to a spheral tune!
When tired with heat and strenuous toil of noon
With ceaseless conflict betwixt might and right
With ebb and flow of sorrow and delight
Our panting hearts beneath their burdens swoon
To thee O star-eyed comforter we creep
Earth's ill-used step-children to thee make moan
As hiding in thy dark skirts' ample sweep
--Poor debtors whose brief life is not their own
For dunned by Death to whom we owe its loan
Give us O Night the interest paid in sleep. 

All treasures of the earth and opulent seas
Metals and odorous woods and cunning gold
Fowls of the air and furry beasts untold
Vineyards and harvest fields and fruitful trees
Nature gave unto Man
and last her keys
Vouched passage to her secret ways of old
Whence knowledge should be wrung nay power to mould
Out of the rough his occult destinies.
But tired of these he craved a wider scope:
Then fair as Pallas from the brain of Jove
From his deep wish there sprang full-armed to cope
With all life's ills even very death in love
The only thing man never wearies of--
His own creation--visionary Hope. 

The dead abide with us! Though stark and cold
Earth seems to grip them they are with us still:
They have forged our chains of being for good or ill
And their invisible hands these hands yet hold.
Our perishable bodies are the mould
In which their strong imperishable will--
Mortality's deep yearning to fulfil--
Hath grown incorporate through dim time untold.
Vibrations infinite of life in death
As a star's travelling light survives its star!
So may we hold our lives that when we are
The fate of those who then will draw this breath
They shall not drag us to their judgment bar
And curse the heritage which we bequeath. 

Thy life O Man in this brief moment lies:
Time's narrow bridge whereon we darkling stand
With an infinitude on either hand
Receding luminously from our eyes.
Lo there thy Past's forsaken Paradise
Subsideth like some visionary strand
While glimmering faint the Future's promised land
Illusive from the abyss seems fain to rise.
This hour alone Hope's broken pledges mar
And joy now gleams before now in our rear
Like mirage mocking in some waste afar
Dissolving into air as we draw near.
Beyond our steps the path is sunny-clear
The shadow lying only where we are. 

Hurrying for ever in their restless flight
The generations of earth's teeming womb
Rise into being and lapse into the tomb
Like transient bubbles sparkling in the light
They sink in quick succession out of sight
Into the thick insuperable gloom
Our futile lives in flashing by illume--
Lightning which mocks the darkness of the night.
Nay--but consider though we change and die
If men must pass shall Man not still remain?
As the unnumbered drops of summer rain
Whose changing particles unchanged on high
Fixed in perpetual motion yet maintain
The mystic bow emblazoned on the sky. 

Oh ye all ye who suffer here below
Schooled in the baffling mystery of pain
Who on life's anvil bear the fateful strain
Wrong as forged iron hammered blow on blow.
Take counsel with your grief in that you know
That he who suffers suffers not in vain
Nay that it shall be for the whole world's gain
And wisdom prove the priceless price of woe.
Thus in some new-found land where no man's feet
Have trod a path bold voyagers astray
May fall foredone by torturing thirst and heat:
But from the impotent body of defeat--
The winners spring who carve a conquering way--
Measured by milestones of their perished clay.

Like a great rock which looming o'er the deep
Casts his eternal shadow on the strands
And veiled in cloud inexorably stands
While vaulting round his adamantine steep
Embattled breakers clamorously leap
Sun-garlanded and hope-uplifted bands
But soon with waters shattered in the sands
Slowly recoiling back to ocean creep:
So sternly dost thou tower above us Fate!
For still our eager hearts exultant beat
Borne in the hurrying tide of life elate
And dashing break against thy marble feet
But would Hope's rainbow-aureole round us fleet
Without these hurtling shocks of man's estate?

Would we but love what will not pass away!
The sun that on each morning shines as clear
As when it rose first on the world's first year
The fresh green leaves that rustle on the spray.
The sun will shine the leaves will be as gay
When graves are full of all our hearts held dear
When not a soul of those who loved us here
Not one is left us--creatures of decay.
Yea love the Abiding in the Universe
Which was before and will be after us.
Nor yet for ever hanker and vainly cry
For human love--the beings that change or die
Die--change--forget: to care so is a curse
Yet cursed we'll be rather than not care thus.

Lo haply walking in some clattering street--
Where throngs of men and women dumbly pass
Like shifting pictures seen within a glass
Which leave no trace behind--one seems to meet
In roads once trodden by our mutual feet
A face projected from that shadowy mass
Of faces quite familiar as it was
Which beaming on us stands out clear and sweet.
The face of faces we again behold
That lit our life when life was very fair
And leaps our heart toward eyes and mouth and hair:
Oblivious of the undying love grown cold
Or body sheeted in the churchyard mould
We stretch out yearning hands and grasp--the air.

From out the front of being undefiled
A life hath been upheaved with struggle and pain
Safe in her arms a mother holds again
That dearest miracle--a new-born child.
To moans of anguish terrible and wild--
As shrieks the night-wind through an ill-shut pane--
Pure heaven succeeds
and after fiery strain
Victorious woman smiles serenely mild.
Yea shall she not rejoice shall not her frame
Thrill with a mystic rapture! At this birth
The soul now kindled by her vital flame
May it not prove a gift of priceless worth?
Some saviour of his kind whose starry fame
Shall bring a brightness to the darkened earth.

It is a solemn evening golden-clear--
The Alpine summits flame with rose-lit snow
And headlands purpling on wide seas below
And clouds and woods and arid rocks appear
Dissolving in the sun's own atmosphere
And vast circumference of light whose slow
Transfiguration--glow and after-glow--
Turns twilight earth to a more luminous sphere.
Oh heart I ask seeing that the orb of day
Has sunk below yet left to sky and sea
His glory's spiritual after-shine:
I ask if Love whose sun hath set for thee
May not touch grief with his memorial ray
And lend to loss itself a joy divine? 

Morning has come upon us--from the day
Has rolled each darkling cloud the orient view
Unveils with gorgeous sun and deep clear blue.
But ocean riots still
--in ponderous play
Thousands of heavy surges plunge away
Dazzling with snow-white foam or swiftly woos
Iris to paint all brightly tinted hues.
Strangely fair magic 'mid their shivered spray
Around us many a little whale-bird skims
Dipping its tiny bosom in the deep
Then instantly uprises blithe and high
Even as the heart unthralled by earthly things
Will walk this troubled earth yet ever keep
Its dearest home up in the azure sky.

It was a stormy night in early spring.
Long after sunset pale green rifts of light
Gleamed in the west changing to vitreous white
And when these faded darkness was a thing
Strangely portentous. There went whirring wing
Low in the air of birds in furious flight
Wild fowls blown from their courses in the night.
It was an eve for spectral imaging.
A sinless maiden in her chamber high
That Easter advent midnight heard a call:
Arise! arise! and startled from her bed
She saw a glory burst along the sky.
It lit with flame the cross upon her wall
And through the splendor crimson rain was shed.

Summer is routed from her rosy plains
The splendid queen with colors flying fled
Far to the south leaving her legions dead
Upon the fields all in the dismal rains.
The minstrels of her camp most plaintive strains
Piped as they flew. Then vandal armies spread
About the hills their tattered tents of red
And gold and purple and their gaudy trains
Usurped the valleys firing as they went
Till halted by a cordon of grim pines
That would not yield nor furl their banners green.
Wounded they fought and moaned though wellnigh spent.
With blood-drops trickling down their chevron vines
They fought and stoodthe Old Guard of their queen.

I think that we retain of our dead friends
And absent ones no general portraiture
That perfect memory does not long endure
But fades and fades until our own life ends.
Unconsciously forgetfulness attends
That grief for which there is no other cure
But leaves of each lost one some record sure
A look an act a tonesomething that lends
Relief and consolation not regret.
Even that poor mother mourning her dead child
Whose agonizing eyes with tears are wet
Whose bleeding heart can not be reconciled
Unto the grave's embraceeven she shall yet
Remember only when her babe first smiled.

Sweet-natured Lord at whose birth all the spheres
Tuned their best harmony and on whose head
Kind heaven its choicest dews in plenty shed
Teach me what secrets in this vale of tears
Support thy easy mind! Vain hopes and fears
That over the rest a chequered shadow spread
Leave thee unclouded
thou dost gaily tread
As in a path that sunshine never cheers.
Whence is this learnt? Ah no! the solemn brow
The grave deportment that with careful scan
Measures each step on level ground and even
But trips on rough--these may be learnt we know
These have by that vile beast resembling man
But thy philosophy is all from heaven.

Oblivion! is it not one name of death?
Nay is not Lethe death's most dismal name
Death growing hour by hour within our frame
Death settling slowly in our brain the breath
Of the soul ebbing so that he who saith
I am to-day as yesterday the same
Lies for his thoughts are fled like smoke from flame
And like the dew his sorrow vanisheth.
Changed is the river though the waves remain
Which rocks of slowlier-changing circumstance
Plough up in every day of chafing foam.
Changed is the river gone gone to the main
Yesterday's dream and last year's happy chance
And the heart's thoughts again return not home. 

A dagger-hilt crusted with flaming gems:
A queen's rich girdle clasped with tiger's claws
A lady's glove or a cat's velvet paws
The whisper of a judge when he condemns
Fierce night-shade berries purple on their stems
Among the rose's healthsome scarlet haws
A rainbow-sheathed snake with jagged jaws:
Such are queen Beauty's sovran anadems.
For she caresses with a poisoned hand
And venom hangs about her moistened lips
And plots of murder lurk with her eyes
She loves lewd girls dancing a saraband
The murderer stabbing till all his body drips
And thee my gentle lady and thy soft sighs.

Her hair is yellow as sulphur and her gaze
As brimstone burning blue and odorous:
I know not how her eyes came to be thus
But I do think her soul must be ablaze:
Their pupils wane or wax to blame or praise
As a cat watches mice she watches us
And I am sure her claws are murderous
So feline are her velvet coaxing ways.
She purrs like a young leopard soothed and pleased
At flattery
so too turns and snarls when teased
And pats her love like a beast of prey.
I fancy too that over wine and food
Her saffron hair turns tawny and grand her mood--
She broods like a young lioness of play. 

The marriage of two murderers in the gloom
Of a dark fane to hymns of blackest night
Before a priest who keeps his hands from sight
Hidden away beneath his robe of doom
Lest any see the flowers of blood that bloom
For gems upon the fingers red on white
The while far up in domes of dizzy height
The trumpets of the organ peal and boom:
Such is our love. Oh sweet delicious lips
From which I fancy all the world's blood drips!
Oh supple waist pale cheek and eyes of fire
Hard little breasts and white gigantic hips
And blue-black hair with serpent coils that slips
Out of my hand in hours of red desire.

After long days of dull perpetual rain
And from gray skies the sun at last shines bright
And all the sparkling trees are glad with light
And all the happy world laughs out again
The sorrow is forgotten past the pain
For Nature has no memory feels the blight
Of no regret nor mars the day's delight
With idle fears and hopes and longings vain.
Ah me! it is not so with us
the ghost
Of vanished joys pursues us everywhere
We live as much in all that we have lost
As what we own
no present is so fair
That the best moment's sunlight is not crossed
By shadowy shapes of hope and fear and care.

We are pursued by Fate
nothing on earth
Flowers into satisfaction
on the skirt
Of all temptation hidden yet alert
Hangs disappointment ready to spring forth
And jar with discord the clear song of mirth
Even our best pleasure has the sting of hurt
And prayers and tears are futile to avert
The Nemesis that haunts us from our birth.
Oh! what avail our struggles who are caught
In Fate's inextricable web! In vain
Through the dark future our exhausted thought
Seeks for a resting-place secure from pain
Our Present crumbles 'neath us while we laugh
Our Past has but a sigh for epitaph. 

Little we know what secret influence
A word a glance a casual tone may bring
That like the wind's breath on a chorded string
May thrill the memory touch the inner sense
And waken dreams that come we know not whence
Or like the light touch of a bird's swift wing
The lake's still face a moment visiting
Leave pulsing rings when he has vanished thence.
You looked into my eyes an instant's space
And all the boundaries of time and place
Broke down and far into a world beyond
Of buried hopes and dreams my soul had sight
Where dim desires long lost and memories fond
Rose in a soft mirage of tender light.

Keep thou amidst the fulness of thy days
Some little space apart for thoughts of me
Where all the best I have and am may be
Familiar and essential to thy ways
Upon the hours' swift argosies emblaze
The prayer that ever shall encompass thee
The hope the aim the spirit's sudden plea
At once thy inspiration and thy praise.
For he who keeps within his heart a shrine
Where tender dreams may gather makes defence
Against encroaching tides that undermine
The soul's integrity and confidence
And I would have act in every act of thine
Love's presence conscious to thy deeper sense.

As far as sight could reach the wild peaks rose
Tier after tier against the limpid blue
Titanic forms that stormed the heavens anew
At every turn crowned with imperial snows
And then as day sank softly to its close
Diaphanous ethereal they grew
Mere wraiths of rainbow-mist that from our view
Dream-laden lapsed to darkness and repose.
And suddenly I found my vision blurred
And knew that deeper chord was touched again
Which once in Hungary when I had heard
A passionately wild appealing strain
Of gypsy music left me strangely stirred
With incommunicable joy and pain. 

She sitteth in the sunshine old and grey
Her faded kerchief crossed upon her breast
Her withered form in sober colors dressed
Her thoughts fixed ever on the Far-away
She scarcely sees the children at their play
But looks beyond them to the crimsoning West
And still beyond where everlasting rest
Remains to close and crown her little day.
But on her tranquil and unconscious face
In lines engraved by joy no less than tears
The story of her pilgrimage we trace
For Youth quick-flying left his dearer part
And all the fragrance of the vanished years
Imperishable lies within her heart.

How soon hath Time the subtle thief of youth
Stolen on his wing my three and twentieth year!
My hasting days fly on with full career
But my late spring no bud or blossom shew'th.
Perhaps my semblance might deceive the truth
That I to manhood am arrived so near
And inward ripeness doth much less appear
That some more timely-happy spirits indu'th.
Yet be it less or more or soon or slow
It shall be still in strictest measure even
To that same lot however mean or high
Toward which Time leads me and the will of Heaven.
All is if I have grace to use it so
As ever in my great Task-master's eye. 

When I consider how my light is spent
Ere half my days in this dark world and wide
And that one Talent which is death to hide
Lodged with me useless though my soul more bent
To serve therewith my Maker and present
My true account lest He returning chide
"Doth God exact day-labour light denied?"
I fondly ask. But Patience to prevent
That murmur soon replies "God doth not need
Either man's work or his own gifts. Who best
Bear his mild yoke they serve him best. His state
Is kingly: thousands at his bidding speed
And post o'er land and ocean without rest
They also serve who only stand and wait." 

Avenge O Lord thy slaughtered Saints whose bones
Lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold
Even them who kept thy truth so pure of old
When all our fathers worshiped stocks and stones
Forget not: in thy book record their groans
Who were thy sheep and in their ancient fold
Slain by the bloody Piemontese that rolled
Mother with infant down the rocks. Their moans
The vales redoubled to the hills and they
To heaven. Their martyred blood and ashes sow
O'er all the Italian fields where still doth sway
The triple Tyrant
that from these may grow
A hundredfold who having learnt thy way
Early may fly the Babylonian woe. 

Methought I saw my late espoused saint
Brought to me like Alcestis from the grave
Whom Jove's great son to her glad husband gave
Rescued from Death by force though pale and faint.
Mine as whom washed from spot of childbed taint
Purification in the Old Law did save
And such as yet once more I trust to have
Full sight of her in Heaven without restraint
Came vested all in white pure as her mind.
Her face was veiled
yet to my fancied sight
Love sweetness goodness in her person shined
So clear as in no face with more delight.
But oh! as to embrace me she inclined
I waked she fled and day brought back my night. 

Cromwell our chief of men who through a cloud
Not of war only but detractions rude
Guided by faith and matchless fortitude
To peace and truth thy glorious way hast ploughed
And on the neck of crowned Fortune proud
Hast reared God's trophies and his work pursued
While Darwen stream with blood of Scots imbrued
And Dunbar field resounds thy praises loud
And Worcester's laureate wreath: yet much remains
To conquer still
Peace hath her victories
No less renowned than War: new foes arise
Threatening to bind our souls with secular chains.
Help us to save free conscience from the paw
Of hireling wolves whose Gospel is their maw.

A Book was writ of late called Tetrachordon
And wov'n close both matter form and style
The subject new: it walked the town awhile
Numb'ring good intellects
now seldom pored on.
Cries the stall-reader 'Bless us! what a word on
A title-page is this!'
and some in file
Stand spelling false while one might walk to Mile-
End Green. Why is it harder sirs than Gordon
Colkitto or Macdonnel or Galasp?
Those rugged names to our like mouths grow sleek
That would have made Quintilian stare and gasp.
Thy age like ours O soul of Sir John Cheek
Hated not learning worse than toad or asp
When thou taught'st Cambridge and King Edward Greek.

When Faith and Love which parted from thee never
Had ripened thy just soul to dwell with God
Meekly thou didst resign this earthly load
Of Death called Life which us from Life doth sever.
Thy works and alms and all thy good endeavour
Stayed not behind nor in the grave were trod
But as Faith pointed with her golden rod
Followed thee up to joy and bliss for ever.
Love led them on
and Faith who knew them best
Thy handmaids clad them o'er with purple beams
And azure wings that up they flew so drest
And spake the truth of thee on glorious themes
Before the Judge
who thenceforth bid thee rest
And drink thy fill of pure immortal streams. 

Cyriack whose grandsire on the royal bench
Of British Themis with no mean applause
Pronounced and in his volumes taught our laws
Which others at their bar so often wrench
To-day deep thoughts resolve with me to drenchdt
In mirth that after no repenting draws
Let Euclid rest and Archimedes pause
And what the Swede intend and what the French.
To measure life learn thou betimes and know
Toward solid good what leads the nearest way
For other things mild Heaven a time ordains
And disapproves that care though wise in show
That with superfluous burden loads the day
And when God sends a cheerful hour refrains. 

Your easy Essays indicate a flow
Dear friend of brain which we may elsewhere seek
And to their pages I and hundreds owe
That Wednesday is the sweetest of the week.
Such observation wit and sense are shown
We think the days of Bickerstaff return'd
And that a portion of that oil you own
In his undying midnight lamp which burn'd.
I would not lightly bruise old Priscian's head
Or wronog the rules of grammar understood
But with the leave of Priscian be it said
The Indicative is your Potential Mood.
Wit poet prose-man party-man translator--
H your best title yet is Indicator. 

All unadvised and in an evil hour
Lured by aspiring thoughts my son you doft
The lowly labours of the "Gentle Craft"
For lowly toils which blood and spirits sour.
All things dear pledge are not in all men's power
The wiser sort of shrub affects the ground
The sweet content of mind is oftener found
In cobbler's parlour than in critic's bower.
The sorest work is what doth cross the grain
And better to this hour you had been plying
The obsequious awl with well-wax'd finger flying
Than ceaseless thus to till a thankless vein:
Still teasing muses which are still denying
Making a stretching-leather of your brain. 

A timid grace sits trembling in her eye
As loth to meet the rudeness of men's sight
Yet shedding a delicious lunar light
That steeps in kind oblivious ecstasy
The care-crazed mind like some still melody:
Speaking most plain the thoughts which do possess
Her gentle sprite: peace and meek quietness
And innocent loves and maiden purity:
A look whereof might heal the cruel smart
Of changed friends or fortune's wrongs unkind:
Might to sweet deeds of mercy move the heart
Of him who hates his brethren of mankind.
Turned are those lights from me who fondly yet
Past joys vain loves and buried hopes regret. 

As when a child on some long winter's night
Affrighted clinging to its Grandam's knees
With eager wond'ring and perturbed delight
Listens strange tales of fearful dark decrees
Muttered to wretch by necromantic spell
Or of those hags who at the witching time
Of murky midnight ride the air sublime
And mingle foul embrace with fiends of Hell:
Cold Horror drinks its blood! Anon the tear
More gentle starts to hear the Beldame tell
Of pretty babes that loved each other dear
Murdered by cruel Uncle's mandate fell:
Ev'n such the shiv'ring joys thy tones impart
Ev'n so thou Siddons! meltest my sad heart! 

Queen-bird that sittest on thy shining nest
And thy young cygnets without sorrow hatchest
And thou thou other royal bird that watchest
Lest the white mother wandering feet molest:
Shrined are your offspring in a crystal cradle
Brighter than Helen's ere she yet had burst
Her shelly prison. They shall be born at first
Strong active graceful perfect swan-like able
To tread the land or waters with security
Unlike poor human births conceived in sin
In grief brought forth both outwardly and in
Confessing weakness error and impurity.
Did heavenly creatures own succession's line
The births of heaven like to yours would shine. 

O have you seen the scarlet pimpernel
The wild sea-flavored blossom of the strand
The token flower the pledge of sea and land
And have you learned to heed its secret spell?
Aurora's friend it loves the morning well
And you shall find it open to your hand
The sunny morning throughbut understand
Storm clouds will close it closer than a shell.
Love is the pimpernel: then do not wait
Go in the morning faithful to the hour
Go when thy lady keeps her matin state
Her heart is coy and closes like a flower.
Go in the sunlight haste and claim love's boon
Nor tempt the changing skies and afternoon.

The soaring lark from swelling breast may sound
Exultant strains that thrill the world below
The thrush on flute melodious may blow
The sweet sad tones that stir the soul profound
But haply too on lonely shady mound
The wood-bird pipes a heart-song soft and low
That through her own breast sends a cheery glow
Yet brightness too the little world around:
And may not one who feels his bosom swell
And thrill at every note sublime and strong
Who loves the sweet sad melodies that dwell
And linger in the heart's recesses long
The while himself he cheers attempt as well
To lighten others with his artless song?

Small was thy share of all this world's delight
And scant thy poet's crown of flowers of praise
Yet ever catches quaint of quaint old days
Thou sang'st and singing kept thy spirit bright
Even as to lips the winds of winter bite
Some outcast wanderer sets his flute and plays
Till at his feet blossom the icy ways
And from the snowdrift's bitter wasting white
He hears the uprising carol of the lark
Soaring from clover seas with summer ripe--
While freeze upon his cheek glad foolish tears.
Ah! let us hope that somewhere in thy dark
Herrick's full note and Suckling's pleasant pipe
Are sounding still their solace in thine ears. 

A thousand fans are fretting the hot air
Soft swells the music of the interlude
Above the murmurous hum of talk subdued
But from the noise withdrawn and from the glare
Deep in the shadowy box your coild hair
Gleams golden bright with diamonds bedewed
Your head is bent
I know your dark eyes brood
On the poor sheet of paper you hold there
That quotes my verses and I see no more
That bald-head Plutus by your side. The seas
Sound in my ears
I hear the rustling pines
Catch the low lisp of billows on the shore
Where once I lay in Knickerbockered ease
And read to you those then unprinted lines. 

As to a bird's song she were listening
Her beautiful head is ever sidewise bent
Her questioning eyes lift up their depths intent
She who will never hear the wild-birds sing.
My words within her ears' cold chambers ring
Faint with the city's murmurous sub-tones blent
Though with such sounds as suppliants may have sent
To high-throned goddesses my speech takes wing.
Not for the side-poised head's appealing grace
I gaze nor hair where fire in shadow lies
For her this world's unhallowed noises base
Melt into silence
not our groans our cries
Our curses reach that high-removd place
Where dwells her spirit innocently wise.

There is an hour when first the westering sun
Takes on some forecast faint of future red
When from the wings of weariness is shed
A spell upon us toilers every one
The day's work lags a little well-nigh done
Far dusky lofts through all the close air spread
A smell of eastern bales
the old clerk's head
Nods by my side heavy with dreams begun
In dear dead days wherein his heart is tombed.
But I my way to Italy have found
Or wander where high stars gleam coldly through
The Alpine skies or in some nest perfumed
With soft Parisian luxury set round
Held out my arms and cry "At last!" to you.

Although a curtain of the salt sea-mist
May fall between the actor and our eyes
Although he change for dear and softer skies
These that the sun has yet but coyly kissed
Although the voice to which we loved to list
Fail ere the thunder of our plaudits dies
Although he parts from us in gracious wise
With grateful memory left his eulogist
His best is with us still.
His perfect art
Has held us 'twixt a heart-throb and a tear
Cheating our souls to passionate belief.
And in his greatness we have now some part
We have been courtiers of the crownless Lear
And partners in Othello's mighty grief.

As to the drunkard who at morn doth wake
Are the clear waters of the virgin spring
Wherewith he bathes his eyes that burn and sting
And his intolerable thirst doth slake
So is the thought of thee to me who break
One sober moment sick and shuddering
From all my life's unworthiness to fling
Me at thy memory's feet and for Love's sake
Pray that thy peace may enter in my soul.
Love thou hast heart! My veins more calmly flow
The madness of the night is passed away
Fire of false eyes thirst of the cursd bowl
I drink deep of thy purity and lo!
Thou hast given me new heart to meet the day.

If love should count you worthy and should deign
One day to seek your door and be your guest
Pause! ere you draw the bolt and bid him rest
If in your old content you would remain.
For not alone he enters: in his train
Are angels of the mists the lonely quest
Dreams of the unfulfilled and unpossessed.
And sorrow and life's immemorial pain.
He wakes desires you never may forget
He shows you stars you never saw before
He makes you share with him for evermore
The burden of the world's divine regret
How wise were you to open not!--and yet
How poor if you should turn him from the door.

What was't awakened first the untried ear
Of that sole man who was all human kind?
Was it the gladsome welcome of the wind
Stirring the leaves that never yet were sere?
The four mellifluous streams which flowed so near
Their lulling murmurs all in one combined?
The note of bird unnamed? The startled hind
Bursting the brake in wonder not in fear
Of her new lord? Or did the holy ground
Send forth mysterious melody to greet
The gracious pressure of immaculate feet?
Did viewless seraphs rustle all around
Making sweet music out of air as sweet?
Or his own voice awake him with its sound?

There is an awful quiet in the air
And the sad earth with moist imploring eye
Looks wide and wakeful at the pondering sky
Like Patience slow subsiding to Despair.
But see the blue smoke as a voiceless prayer
Sole witness of a secret sacrifice
Unfolds its tardy wreaths and multiplies
Its soft chameleon breathings in the rare
Capacious ether--so it fades away
And nought is seen beneath the pendent blue
The undistinguishable waste of day.
So have I dreamed!--oh may the dream be true!--
That praying souls are purged from mortal hue
And grow as pure as He to whom they pray.

The crackling embers on the hearth are dead
The indoor note of industry is still
The latch is fast
upon the window-sill
The small birds wait not for their daily bread
The voiceless flowers--how quietly they shed
Their nightly odours
--and the household rill
Murmurs continuous dulcet sounds that fill
The vacant expectation and the dread
Of listening night. And haply now She sleeps
For all the garrulous noises of the air
Are hush'd in peace
the soft dew silent weeps
Like hopeless lovers for a maid so fair:--
Oh! that I were the happy dream that creeps
To her soft heart to find my image there.

Let me not deem that I was made in vain
Or that my being was an accident
Which Fate in working its sublime intent
Not wished to be to hinder would not deign.
Each drop uncounted in a storm of rain
Hath its own mission and is duly sent
To its own leaf or blade not idly spent
'Mid myriad dimples on the shipless main.
The very shadow of an insect's wing
For which the violet cared not while it stayed
Yet felt the lighter for its vanishing
Proved that the sun was shining by its shade.
Then can a drop of the eternal spring
Shadow of living lights in vain be made? 

The mellow year is hastening to its close
The little birds have almost sung their last
Their small notes twitter in the dreary blast--
That shrill-piped harbinger of early snows
The patient beauty of the scentless rose
Oft with the morn's hoar crystal quaintly glassed
Hangs a pale mourner for the summer past
And makes a little summer where it grows:
In the chill sunbeam of the faint brief day
The dusky waters shudder as they shine
The russet leaves obstruct the straggling way
Of oozy brooks which no deep banks define
And the gaunt woods in ragged scant array
Wrap their old limbs with sombre ivy-twine.

A wrinkled crabbed man they picture thee
Old Winter with a rugged beard as grey
As the long moss upon the apple-tree
Blue-lipt an icedrop at thy sharp blue nose
Close muffled up and on thy dreary way
Plodding alone through sleet and drifting snows.
They should have drawn thee by the high-heapt hearth
Old Winter! seated in thy great armed chair
Watching the children at their Christmas mirth
Or circled by them as thy lips declare
Some merry jest or tale of murder dire
Or troubled spirit that disturbs the night
Pausing at times to rouse the mouldering fire
Or taste the old October brown and bright. 

Go Valentine and tell that lovely maid
Whom fancy still will portray to my sight
How here I linger in this sullen shade
This dreary gloom of dull monastic night
Say that every joy of life remote
At evening's closing hour I quit the throng
Listening in solitude the ring-dome's note
Who pours like me her solitary song
Say that of her absence calls the sorrowing sigh
Say that of all her charms I love to speak
In fancy feel the magic of her eye
In fancy view the smile illume her cheek
Court the lone hour when silence stills the grove
And heave the sigh of memory and of love. 

If thou didst feed on western plains of yore
Or waddle wide with flat and flabby feet
Over some Cambrian mountain's plashy moor
Or find in farmer's yard a safe retreat
From gipsy thieves and foxes sly and fleet
If thy grey quills by lawyer guided trace
Deeds big with ruin to some wretched race
Or love-sick poet's sonnet sad and sweet
Wailing the rigour of some lady fair
Or if the drudge of housemaid's daily toil
Cobwebs and dust thy pinion white besoil
Departed goose! I neither know nor care.
But this I know that thou wert very fine
Seasoned with sage and onions and port wine.

Let ancient stories round the painter's art
Who stole from many a maid his Venus' charms
Till warm devotion fired each gazer's heart
And every bosom bounded with alarms.
He culled the beauties of his native isle
From some the blush of beauty's vermeil dyes
From some the lovely look the winning smile
From some the languid lustre of the eyes.
Low to the finished form the nations round
In adoration bent the pious knee
With myrtle wreaths the artist's brow they crowned
Whose skill Ariste only imaged thee.
Ill-fated artist doomed so wide to seek
The charms that blossom on Ariste's cheek! 

Hold your mad hands! for ever on your plain
Must the gorged vulture clog his beak with blood?
For ever must your Niger's tainted flood
Roll to the ravenous shark his banquet slain?
Hold your mad hands! and learn at length to know
And turn your vengeance on the common foe
Yon treacherous vessel and her godless crew!
Let never traders with false pretext fair
Set on your shores again their wicked feet:
With interdict and indignation meet
Repel them and with fire and sword pursue!
Avarice the white cadaverous fiend is there
Who spreads his toils accursed wide and far
And for his purveyor calls the demon War.

High in the air exposed the slave is hung
To all the birds of heaven their living food!
He groans not though awaked by that fierce sun
New torturers live to drink their parent blood
He groans not though the gorging vulture tear
The quivering fiber. Hither look O ye
Who tore this man from peace and liberty!
Look hither ye who weigh with politic care
The gain against the guilt! Beyond the grave
There is another world: bear ye in mind
Ere your decree proclaims to all mankind
The gain is worth the guilt that there the Slave
Before the Eternal "thunder-tongued shall plead
Against the deep damnation of your deed.

Sea-like in billowy distance far away
The half-broke prairies stretch on every hand
How wide the circuit of their summer day--
What measureless acres of primeval land
Treeless and birdless by no eyesight spanned!
Looking along the horizon's endless line
Man seems a pigmy in these realms of space
No segment of our planet--so divine--
Turns up such beauty to the moon's fair face!
Here are soft grasses flowers of tender hue
Palimpsests of the old and coming race
Vistas most wonderful and vast and new
And see--above--where giant lightnings play
From what an arch the sun pours forth the day! 

His cherished woods are mute. The stream glides down
The hill as when I knew it years ago
The dark pine arbor with its priestly gown
Stands hushed as if our grief it still would show
The silver springs are cupless and the flow
Of friendly feet no more bereaves the grass
For he is absent who was wont to pass
Along this wooded path. His axe's blow
No more disturbs the impertinent bole or bough
Nor moves his pen our heedless nation now
Which sworn to justice stirred the people so.
In some far world his much-loved face must glow
With rapture still. This breeze once fanned his brow.
This is the peaceful Mecca all men know!

When from the vaulted wonder of the sky
The curtain of the light is drawn aside
And I behold the stars in all their wide
Significance and glorious mystery
Assured that those more distant orbs are suns
Round which innumerable worlds revolve
My faith grows strong my day-born doubts dissolve
And death that dread annulment which life shuns
Or fain would shun becomes to life the way
The thoroughfare to greater worlds on high
The bridge from star to star. Seek how we may
There is no other road across the sky
And looking up I hear star-voices say:
"You could not reach us if you did not die."

This city is the child of France and Spain
That once lived nobly ardent as the heat
In which it came to birth. Alas how fleet
The years of love and arms! There now remain
Bleached by the sun and moldered by the rain
Impassive fronts that guard some rare retreat
Some dim arched salon or some garden sweet
Where dreams persist and the past lives again.
The braided iron of the balconies
Is like locked hands fastidiously set
To bar the world. But the proud mysteries
Showed me a glamour I may not forget:
Your face camellia-white upon the stair
Framed in the midnight thicket of your hair.

How like the leper with his own sad cry
Enforcing his own solitude it tolls!
That lonely bell set in the rushing shoals
To warn us from the place of jeopardy!
O friend of man! sore-vex'd by ocean's power
The changing tides wash o'er thee day by day
Thy trembling mouth is fill'd with bitter spray
Yet still thou ringest on from hour to hour
High is thy mission though thy lot is wild--
To be in danger's realm a guardian sound
In seamen's dreams a pleasant part to bear
And earn their blessing as the year goes round
And strike the keynote of each grateful prayer
Breath'd in their distant homes by wife or child! 

How oft I've watch'd thee from the garden croft
In silence when the busy day was done
Shining with wondrous brilliancy aloft
And flickering like a casement 'gainst the sun!
I've seen thee soar from out some snowy cloud
Which held the frozen breath of land and sea
Yet broke and sever'd as the wind grew loud
But earth-bound winds could not dismember thee
Nor shake thy frame of jewels
I have guess'd
At thy strange shape and function haply felt
The charm of that old myth about thy belt
And sword
but most my spirit was possess'd
By His great Presence Who is never far
From his light-bearers whether man or star. 

With joy all relics of the past I hail
The heath-bell lingering in our cultured moor
Or the dull sound of the slip-shouldered flail
Still busy on the poor man's threshing floor:
I love this unshorn hedgerow which survives
Its stunted neighbors in this farming age:
The thatch and houseleek where old Alice lives
With her old herbal trusting every page
I love the spinning wheel which hums far down
In yon lone valley though from day to day
The boom of Science shakes it from the town.
Ah! Sweet old world! thou speedest fast away!
My boyhood's world! but all last looks are dear
More touching is the deathbed than the bier! 

When Letty had scarce passed her third glad year
And her young artless words began to flow
One day we gave the child a colored sphere
Of the wide Earth that she might mark and know
By tint and outline all its sea and land.
She patted all the world
old Empires peeped
Between her baby fingers
her soft hand
Was welcome at all frontiers. How she leaped
And laughed and prattled in her world-wide bliss!
But when we turned her sweet unlearned eye
On our own Isle she raised a joyous cry--
"O yes! I see it Letty's home is there!"
And while she hid all England with a kiss
Bright over Europe fell her golden hair. 

Methought I lived in the icy times forlorn
And with a fond forecasting love and pride
I hung o'er frozen England:--"When" I cried
When will the island of our hopes be born?
When will our fields be seen our church bells heard?
And Avon Doon and Tweed break out in song?
This blank unstoried ice be warmed and stirred
And Thames and Clyde and Humber roll along
To a free sea-board? airs of paradise
Install our summer and our flowery springs
And lift the larks and our land the nightingales?
And this wild alien unfamiliar Wales
Melt home among her harps? and vernal skies
Thaw out old Dover for the houseless kings?"

In summertime it was a paradise
Of mountain frith and bay and shining sand
Our outward rowers sang towards the land
Followed by waving hands and happy cries:
By the full flood the groups no longer roam
And when at ebb the glistening beach grows wide
No barefoot children race into the foam
But passive jellies wait the turn of tide.
Like some forsaken lover lingering there
The boatman stands
the maidens trip no more
With loosened locks
far from the billows' roar
The Mauds and Maries knot their tresses fair
Where not a foam-flake from th' enamored shore
Comes down the sea-wind on the golden hair.

When the young hand of Darnley locked in hers
Had knit her to her northern doom--amid
The spousal pomp of flags and trumpeters
Her fate looked forth and was no longer hid
A jealous brain beneath a southern crown
Wrought spells upon her
from afar she felt
The waxen image of her fortunes melt
Beneath the Tudor's eye while the grim frown
Of her own lords o'ermastered her sweet smiles
And nipped her growing gladness till she mourned
And sank at last beneath their cruel wiles
But ever since all generous hearts have burned
To clear her fame yes very babes have yearned
Over this saddest story of the isles.

Flush with the pond the lurid furnace burned
At eve while smoke and vapor filled the yard
The gloomy winter sky was dimly starred
The fly-wheel with a mellow murmur turned
While ever rising on its mystic stair
In the dim light from secret chambers borne
The straw of harvest severed from the corn
Climbed and fell over in the murky air.
I thought of mind and matter will and law
And then of him who set his stately seal
Of Roman words on all the forms he saw
Of old-world husbandry
I could but feel
With what a rich precision he would draw
The endless ladder and the booming wheel!

Did any seer of ancient time forbode
This mighty engine which we daily see
Accepting our full harvests like a god
With clouds about his shoulders--it might be
Some poet-husbandman some lord of verse
Old Hesiod or the wizard Mantuan
Who catalogued in rich hexameters
The rake the roller and the mystic van
Or else some priest of Ceres it might seem
Who witnessed as he trod the silent fane
The notes and auguries of coming change
Of other ministrants in shrine and grange--
The sweating statue and her sacred wain
Low-booming with the prophecy of steam! 

Dank fens of cedar hemlock-branches gray
With tress and trail of mosses wringing-wet
Beds of the black pitch-pine in dead leaves set
Whose wasted red has wasted to white away
Remnants of rain and droppings of decay--
Why hold ye so my heart nor dimly let
Through your deep leaves the light of yesterday
The faded glimmer of a sunshine set?
Is it that in your darkness shut from strife
The bread of tears becomes the bread of life?
Far from the roar of day beneath your boughs
Fresh griefs beat tranquilly and loves and vows
Grow green in your gray shadows dearer far
Even than all lovely lights and roses are?

An upper chamber in a darkened house
Where ere his footsteps reached ripe manhood's brink
Terror and anguish were his cup to drink--
I cannot rid the thought nor hold it close
But dimly dream upon that man alone
--
Now though the autumn clouds most softly pass
The cricket chides beneath the doorstep stone
And greener than the season grows the grass.
Nor can I drop my lids nor shade my brows
But there he stands beside the lifted sash
And with a swooning of the heart I think
Where the black shingles slope to meet the boughs
And--shattered on the roof like smallest snows--
The tiny petals of the mountain-ash.

His heart was in his garden
but his brain
Wandered at will among the fiery stars:
Bards heroes prophets Homers Hamilcars
With many angels stood his eye to gain
The devils too were his familiars.
And yet the cunning florist held his eyes
Close to the ground--a tulip-bulb his prize--
And talked of tan and bone-dust cutworms grubs
As though all Nature held no higher strain
Or if he spoke of Art he made the theme
Flow through box-borders turf and flower-tubs
Or like a garden-engine's steered the stream--
Now spouted rainbows to the silent skies
Now kept it flat and raked the walks and shrubs.

Under the mountain as when first I knew
Its low dark roof and chimney creeper-twined
The red house stands
and yet my footsteps find
Vague in the walks waste balm and fever few.
But they are gone: no soft-eyed sisters trip
Across the porch or lintels
where behind
The mother sat--sat knitting with pursed lip.
The house stands vacant in its green recess
Absent of beauty as a broken heart
The wild rain enters and the sunset wind
Sighs in the chambers of their loveliness
Or shakes the pane
and in the silent noons
The glass falls from the window part by part
And ringeth faintly in the grassy stones.

Thin little leaves of wood fern ribbed and toothed
Long curved sail needles of the green pitch pine
With common sandgrass skirt the horizon line
And over these the incorruptible blue!
Here let me gently lie and softly view
All world asperities lightly touched and smoothed
As by his gracious hand the great Bestower.
What though the year be late? some colors run
Yet through the dry some links of melody
Still let me be by such assuaged and soothed
And happier made as when our schoolday done
We hunted on from flower to frosty flower
Tattered and dim the last red butterfly
Or the old grasshopper molasses-mouthed.

Sometimes I walk where the deep water dips
Against the land. Or on where fancy drives
I walk and muse aloud like one who strives
To tell his half-shaped thought with stumbling lips
And view the ocean sea the ocean ships
With joyless heart: still but myself I find
And restless phantoms of my restless mind:
Only the moaning of my wandering words
Only the wailing of the wheeling plover
And this high rock beneath whose base the sea
Has wormed long caverns like my tears in me:
And hard like this I stand and beaten and blind
This desolate rock with lichens rusted over
Hoar with salt-sleet and chalkings of the birds.

The moon that borrows now a gentle light
Once burned another sun
then from on high
The earth received a double day
the sky
Showed but faint stars and never knew a night.
The poles now frigid and for ever white
With the deep snows that on their bosoms lie
Were torrid as the moon that hung thereby
And mingled rays as fiercely hot as bright.
Mutations infinite! Through shifting sea
And lands huge monstrous beasts once took their range
Where now our stately world shows pleasantly!
Then be not fearful at the thought of change
For though unknown the times that are to be
Yet shall they prove most beautifully strange.

I see them in my dreams. Their tiny hands
Clutch feebly at the air
upon my face
Blows their sweet breath
a little voice demands
My eager kisses. In that soft embrace
A sense of aching though I know not why
A sense of some forgotten longed-for joy
A joy that thrills me through yet makes me sigh
That time could never change nor death destroy
Still in my dreams I clasp them to my breast
Their soft warm presence folded close to mine
And o'er me steals the balm of perfect rest
And through my veins a gladness like to wine.
I murmur shiver--then as cold as stone
Awake--and oh dear God! awake alone!

The storm is spent the wind has died away
Cool raindrops cling to trembling leaf and tree
As one departing lingers--loath to stay--
And yet departing more unwillingly.
The clouds have vanished from the purpled sky
Before the footsteps of the rising moon
(The queen whose jewelled courtiers prostrate lie
Dazed by the splendour of her silvered shoon).
The earth beneath half-hidden half-revealed
Breathes mellowed beauty where each faery beam
Bathes kloof and vlei and kraal and mealie-field
And willows swaying sadly o'er a stream--
In light--wherein a mining shaft may seem
The angel's ladder of a poet's dream.

No breath of air. The fingers of the sun
Have touched a panting world with lambent fire
And now the earth and heavens wrapped in one
Deep gloom with dread await what both desire
The eager wind comes sweeping through the street
And atoms gathered here and scattered there
Are drawn again together till they meet
And twisting strangely in the yellow glare
Assume unhallowed shapes. A hush a thrill
Foretell great happenings. And by and by
A sudden blinding light--and all is still
A crash--so might a Titan roar and die!
Then sweet as sleep that lulls persistent pain.
In ever-swelling cadence falls the rain. 

The dim grey light comes stealing and the stars
Melt swiftly till at last the only one
Is left a watcher. Rosy radiant bars
Of cloud foretell a day not yet begun.
The purple sky pales in the waking east
From blue to faintest green. The mountains stand
On the horizon's edge. Each bird and beast
Stirs in its sleep. A hush is o'er the land.
The light grows brighter. Trees and shrubs appear
Like wraiths that beckon dumbly in the gloom
Mysterious shapes that slowly grow more clear
Then--chirping birds and flowers all a-bloom.
And lo! the Sun--wielding a molten spear
Leaps like a god new-risen from his tomb.

In that tranced hush when sound sank awed to rest
Ere from her spirit's rose-red rose-sweet gate
Came forth to me her royal word of fate
Did she sigh "Yes" and droop upon my breast
While round our rapture dumb fixed unexpressed
By the seized senses there did fluctuate
The plaintive surges of our mortal state
Tempering the poignant ecstasy too blest.
Do I wake into a dream or have we twain
Lured by soft wiles to some unconscious crime
Dared joys forbid to man? Oh Light supreme
Upon our brows transfiguring glory rain
Nor let the sword of thy just angel gleam
On two who entered heaven before their time!

If I had lived ere seer or priest unveiled
A life to come methinks that knowing thee
I should have guessed thine immortality
For Nature giving instincts never failed
To give the ends they point to. Never quailed
The swallow through air-wilds o'er tracts of sea
To chase the summer
seeds that prisoned be
Dream of and find the daylight. Unassailed
By doubt impelled by yearnings for the main
The creature river-born doth there emerge
So thou with thoughts and longings which our earth
Can never compass in its narrow verge
Shalt the fit region of thy spirit gain
And death fulfil the promptings of thy birth.

Time I rejoice amid the ruin wide
That peoples thy dark empire to behold
Shores against which thy waves in vain have rolled
Where man's proud works still frown above thy tide.
The deep-based pyramids still turn aside
Thy wasteful currents vigorously old
Lucania's temples their array unfold
Pillar and portico in simple pride.
Nor less my joy when sheltered from thy storms
In earth's fond breast hid treasure bursts the sod
Elaborate stone in sculpture's matchless forms.
Oft did I mock thee spoiler as I trod
The glowing courts where still the goddess warms
And stern in beauty stands the quivered god.

I stood at gaze where the free hills arise
Whence rocks mid deepest solitudes are seen
And glimmering through dark foliage the blue sheen
Of ocean stained with heaven's own sapphire dyes:
Then into the deep air I raised my eyes
The steadfast dome was cloudless and serene
Fit roof to over-arch so fair a scene
For earth in loveliness vied with the skies.
Enrolled methought among a happier race
I felt immortal moments as I said
Death finds no entrance here and sin no place
Then quick to mark where recent footsteps led
I saw one bending over the furrow's trace
And on his brow the primal sentence read. 

My window's open to the evening sky
The solemn trees are fringed with golden light
The lawn here shadowed lies there kindles bright
And cherished roses lift their incense high:
The punctual thrush on plane-tree warbling nigh
With loud and luscious voice calls down the night
Dim waters flowing on with gentle might
Between each pause are heard to murmur by.
The book that told of wars in holy land
(Nor less than Tasso sounded in mine ears)
Escapes unheeded from my listless hand.
Poets whom nature for her service rears
Like priests in her great temple ministering stand
But in her glory fade when she appears. 

Is this the spot where Rome's eternal foe
Into his snares the mighty legions drew
Whence from the carnage spiritless and few
A remnant scarcely reached her gates of woe?
Is this the stream thus gliding soft and slow
That from the gushing wounds of thousands grew
So fierce a flood that waves of crimson hue
Rushed on the bosom of the lake below?
The mountains that gave back the battle-cry
Are silent now
perchance yon hillocks green
Mark where the bones of those old warriors lie.
Heaven never gladdened a more peaceful scene
Never left softer breeze a fairer sky
To sport upon thy waters Thrasymene!

I purposed once to take my pen and write
Not songs like some tormented and awry
With passion but a cunning harmony
Of words and music caught from glen and height
And lucid colours born of woodland light
And shining places where the sea-streams lie.
But this was when the heat of youth glowed white
And since I've put the faded purpose by.
I have no faultless fruits to offer you
Who read this book
but certain syllables
Herein are borrowed from unfooted dells
And secret hollows dear to noontide dew
And these at least though far between and few
May catch the sense like subtle forest spells.

So take these kindly even though there be
Some notes that unto jother lyres belong
Stray echoes from the elder sons of song
And think how from its neighbouring native sea
The pensive shell doth borrow melody.
I would not do the lordly masters wrong
By filching fair words from the shining throng
Whose music haunts me as the wind a tree.
Lo when a stranger in soft Syrian glooms
Shot through with sunset treads the cedar dells
And hears the breezy ring of elfin bells
Far down by where the white-haired cataract booms
He faint with sweetness caught from forest smells
Bears thence unwitting plunder of perfumes.

Peace hath an altar there. The sounding feet
Of thunder and the wildering wings of rain
Against fire-rifted summits flash and beat
And through grey upper gorges swoop and strain
But round that hallowed mountain-spring remain
Year after year the days of tender heat
And gracious nights whose lips with flowers are sweet
And filtered lights and lutes of soft refrain.
A still bright pool. To men I may not tell
The secrets that its heart of water knows
The story of a loved and lost repose
Yet this I say to cliff and close-leaved dell:
A fitful spirit haunts yon limpid well
Whose likeness is the faithless face of Rose.

Today while yet the rumour filled the street
I left your faces troubled with the thought
Of brothers to a bodeful fury wrought
And hurrying past a thousand twinkling feet
With clouded heart a solitude I sought
The haunt of many leaves--a cool retreat--
And mused of strife with untold interest fraught
Of homes
of bloody battles to be fought
Nor stirred till night rose stormy and the deep
Moaned like some monster shaken in its sleep.
Then doleful sounds came up from lea and lynn
Where rain fell heavy on the gloomy deep
As if the world so old and sick of sin
Had turned her face into the dark to weep.
Others abide our question. Thou art free.

We ask and ask: Thou smilest and art still
Out-topping knowledge. For the loftiest hill
That to the stars uncrowns his majesty
Planting his stedfast footsteps in the sea
Making the Heaven of Heavens his dwelling-place
Spares but the cloudy border of his base
To the foil'd searching of mortality:
And thou who didst the stars and sunbeams know
Self-school'd self-scann'd self-honour'd self-secure
Didst walk on Earth unguess'd at. Better so!
All pains the immortal spirit must endure
All weakness that impairs all griefs that bow
Find their sole voice in that victorious brow.

Crouch'd on the pavement close by Belgrave Square
A tramp I saw ill moody and tongue-tied
A babe was in her arms and at her side
A girl
their clothes were rags their feet were bare.
Some labouring men whose work lay somewhere there
Pass'd opposite
she touch'd her girl who hied
Across and begg'd and came back satisfied.
The rich she had let pass with frozen stare.
Thought I: Above her state this spirit towers
She will not ask of aliens but of friends
Of sharers in a common human fate.
She turns from that cold succour which attends
The unknown little from the unknowing great
And points us to a better time than ours. 

'Twas August and the fierce sun overhead
Smote on the squalid streets of Bethnal Green
And the pale weaver through his windows seen
In Spitalfields looking thrice dispirited
I met a preacher there I knew and said:
"Ill and o'erworked how fare you in this scene?"
"Bravely" said he
"for I of late have been
Much cheered with thoughts of Christ the living bread."
O human soul! as long as thou canst so
Set up a mark of everlasting light
Above the howling senses' ebb and flow
To cheer thee and to right thee if thou roam
Not with lost toil thou labourest through the night!
Thou mak'st the heaven thou hop'st indeed thy home.

Foil'd by our fellow men depress'd outworn
We leave the brutal world to take its way
And Patience! in another life we say
The world shall be thrust down and we up-borne!
And will not then the immortal armies scorn
The world's poor routed leavings? or will they
Who fail'd under the heat of this life's day
Support the fervours of the heavenly morn?
No no! the energy of life may be
Kept on after the grave but not begun!
And he who flagg'd not in the earthly strife
From strength to strength advancing--only he
His soul well-knit and all his battles won
Mounts and that hardly to eternal life. 

God knows it I am with you. If to prize
Those virtues priz'd and practis'd by too few
But priz'd but lov'd but eminent in you
Man's fundamental life: if to despise
The barren optimistic sophistries
Of comfortable moles whom what they do
Teaches the limit of the just and true--
And for such doing have no need of eyes:
If sadness at the long heart-wasting show
Wherein earth's great ones are disquieted:
If thoughts not idle while before me flow
The armies of the homeless and unfed:--
If these are yours if this is what you are
Then am I yours and what you feel I share.

Can I forget that glorious autumn night
So full of joyous pain when you and I
Stood on the shore beneath a cloudless sky
And watched the moon all drenched with holy light
Sail slowly up and toss a veil of white
Across the heaving sea?when waves rode by
And pressed broad palms upon the rocks to try
And bear away the rough stone from our sight?
Ah no! 'twas then I spoke to you of love
My secret which you long ere that had guessed
'Twas then I first knew passion's fiery heat
And kissed your cheek your lips while high above
A great star shook and in its burning breast
As in my own a red heart beat and beat.

Not like the brazen giant of Greek fame
With conquering limbs astride from land to land
Here at our sea-washed sunset gates shall stand
A mighty woman with a torch whose flame
Is the imprisoned lightning and her name
Mother of Exiles. From her beacon-hand
Glows world-wide welcome
her mild eyes command
The air-bridged harbor that twin cities frame.
"Keep ancient lands your storied pomp!" cries she
With silent lips. "Give me your tired your poor
Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free
The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.
Send these the homeless tempest-tost to me
I lift my lamp beside the golden door!" 

Thou two-faced year Mother of Change and Fate
Didst weep when Spain cast forth with flaming sword
The children of the prophets of the Lord
Prince priest and people spurned by zealot hate.
Hounded from sea to sea from state to state
The West refused them and the East abhorred.
No anchorage the known world could afford
Close-locked was every port barred every gate.
Then smiling thou unveil'dst O two-faced year
A virgin world where doors of sunset part
Saying "Ho all who weary enter here!
There falls each ancient barrier that the art
Of race or creed or rank devised to rear
Grim bulwarked hatred between heart and heart!" 

I see it as it looked one afternoon
In August--by a fresh soft breeze o'erblown
The swiftness of the tide the light thereon.
A far-off sail white as a crescent moon.
The shining waters with pale currents strewn
The quiet fishing-smacks the Eastern cove
The semi-circle of its dark green grove.
The luminous grasses the merry sun
In the grave sky
the sparkle far and wide
Laughter of unseen children cheerful chirp
Of crickets and low lisp of rippling tide
Light summer clouds fantastical as sleep
Changing unnoted while I gazed thereon
All these fair sounds and sights I made my own. 

Late-born and woman-souled I dare not hope
The freshness of the elder lays the might
Of manly modern passion shall alight
Upon my Muse's lips nor may I cope
(Who veiled and screened by womanhood must grope)
With the world's strong-armed warriors and recite
The dangers wounds and triumphs of the fight
Twanging the full-stringed lyre through all its scope.
But if thou ever in some lake-floored cave
O'erbrowed by rocks a wild voice wooed and heard
Answering at once from heaven and earth and wave
Lending elf-music to thy harshest word
Misprize thou not these echoes that belong
To one in love with solitude and song. 

Last night I slept and when I woke her kiss
Still floated on my lips. For we had strayed
Together in my dream through some dim glade
Where the shy moonbeams scarce dared light our bliss.
The air was dank with dew between the trees
The hidden glow-worms kindled and were spent.
Cheek pressed to cheek the cool the hot night-breeze
Mingled ouir hair our breath and came and went
As sporting with our passion. Low and deep
Spake in mine ear her voice: "And didst thou dream
This could be buried? This could be sleep?
And love be thrall to death! Nay whatso seem
Have faith dear heart
this is the thing that is!"
Thereon I woke and on my lips her kiss. 

Music and silver chimes and sunlit air
Freighted with the scent of honeyed orange-flower
Glad friendly festal faces everywhere.
She rapt from all in this unearthly hour
With cloudlike cast-back veil and faint-flushed cheek
In bridal beauty moves as in a trance
Alone with him and fears to breathe to speak
Lest the rare subtle spell dissolve perchance.
But he upon that floral head looks down
Noting the misty eyes the grave sweet brow--
Doubts if her bliss be perfect as his own
And dedicates anew with inward vow
His soul unto her service to repay
Richly the sacrifice she yields this day. 

The bird sits spelled upon the lithe brown wrist
Of yonder turbaned fowler who had lamed
No feather limb but the winged spirit tamed
With his compelling eye. He need not trust
The silken coil not set the thick-limed snare
He lures the wanderer with his steadfast gaze
It shrinks it quails it trembles yet obeys.
And lo! he has enslaved the thing of air.
The fixed insistent human will is lord
Of all the earth
--but in the awful sky
Reigns absolute unreached by deed or word
Above creation
through eternity
Outshining the sun's shield the lightening's sword
The might of Allah's unaverted eye. 

As when a father dies his children draw
About the empty hearth their loss to cheat
With uttered praise & love & oft repeat
His all-familiar words with whispered awe.
The honored habit of his daily law
Not for his sake but theirs whose feeble feet
Need still that guiding lamp whose faith less sweet
Misses that tempered patience without flaw
So do we gather round thy vacant chair
In thine own elm-roofed amber-rivered town
Master & Father! For the love we bear
Not for thy fame's sake do we weave this crown
And feel thy presence in the sacred air
Forbidding us to weep that thou art gone. 

Down the long hall she glistens like a star
The foam-born mother of Love transfixed to stone
Yet none the less immortal breathing on.
Time's brutal hand hath maimed but could not mar.
When first the enthralled enchantress from afar
Dazzled mine eyes I saw not her alone
Serenely poised on her world-worshipped throne
As when she guided once her dove-drawn car--
But at her feet a pale death-stricken Jew
Her life adorer sobbed farewell to love.
Here Heine wept! Here still he weeps anew
Nor ever shall his shadow lift or move
While mourns one ardent heart one poet-brain
For vanished Hellas and Hebraic plain. 

Oft have I brooded on defeat and pain
The pathos of the stupid stumbling throng.
These I ignore to-day and only long
To pour my soul forth in one trumpet strain
One clear grief-shattering triumphant song
For all the victories of man's high endeavor
Palm-bearing laureled deeds that live forever
The splendor clothing him whose will is strong.
Hast thou beheld the deep glad eyes of one
Who has persisted and achieved? Rejoice!
On naught diviner shines the all-seeing sun.
Salute him with free heart and choral voice
'Midst flippant feeble crowds of spectres wan
The bold significant successful man. 

A dream of interlinking hands of feet
Tireless to spin the unseen fairy woof
Of the entangling waltz. Bright eyebeams meet
Gay laughter echoes from the vaulted roof.
Warm perfumes rise
the soft unflickering glow
Of branching lights sets off the changeful charms
Of glancing gems rich stuffs the dazzling snow
Of necks unkerchieft and bare clinging arms.
Hark to the music! How beneath the strain
Of reckless revelry vibrates and sobs
One fundamental chord of constant pain
The pulse-beat of the poet's heart that throbs.
So yearns though all the dancing waves rejoice
The troubled sea's disconsolate deep voice.

Who shall proclaim the golden fable false
Of Orpheus' miracles? This subtle strain
Above our prose-world's sordid loss and gain
Lightly uplifts us. With the rhythmic waltz
The lyric prelude the nocturnal song
Of love and languor varied visions rise
That melt and blend to our enchanted eyes.
The Polish poet who sleeps silenced long
The seraph-souled musician breathes again
Eternal eloquence immortal pain.
Revived the exalted face we know so well
The illuminated eyes the fragile frame
Slowly consuming with its inward flame
We stir not speak not lest we break the spell.

A voice was needed sweet and true and fine
As the sad spirit of the evening breeze
Throbbing with human passion yet devine
As the wild bird's untutored melodies.
A voice for him 'neath twilight heavens dim
Who mourneth for his dead while round him fall
The wan and noiseless leaves. A voice for him
Who sees the first green sprout who hears the call
Of the first robin on the first spring day.
A voice for all whom Fate hath set apart
Who still misprized must perish by the way
Longing with love for that they lack the art
Of their own soul's expression. For all these
Sing the unspoken hope the vague sad reveries.

Then Nature shaped a poet's heart--a lyre
From out whose chords the lightest breeze that blows
Drew trembling music wakening sweet desire.
How shall she cherish him? Behold! she throws
This precious fragile treasure in the whirl
Of seething passions
he is scourged and stung
Must dive in storm-vext seas if but one pearl
Of art or beauty therefrom may be wrung.
No pure-browed pensive nymph his Muse shall be
An amazon of thought with sovereign eyes
Whose kiss was poison man-brained worldy-wise
Inspired that elfin delicate harmony.
Rich gain for us! But with him is it well?
The poet who must sound earth heaven and hell!

Blue storm-clouds in hot heavens of mid-July
Hung heavy brooding over land and sea:
Our hearts a-tremble throbbed in harmony
With the wild restless tone of air and sky.
Shall we not call im Prospero who held
In his enchanted hands the fateful key
Of that tempestuous hour's mystery
And with controlling wand our spirits spelled
With him to wander by a sun-bright shore
To hear fine fairy voices and to fly
With disembodied Ariel once more
Above earth's wrack and ruin? Far and nigh
The laughter of the thunder echoed loud
And harmless lightnings leapt from cloud to cloud. 

Floating upon a swelling wave of sound
We seemed to overlook an endless sea:
Poised 'twixt clear heavens and glittering surf were we.
We drank the air in flight: we knew no bound
To the audacious ventures of desire.
Nigh us the sun was dropping drowned in gold
Deep deep below the burning billows rolled
And all the sea sang like a smitten lyre.
Oh the wild voices of those chanting waves!
The human faces glimpsed beneath the tide!
Familiar eyes gazed from profound sea-caves
And we exalted were as we had died.
We knew the sea was Life the harmonious cry
The blended discords of humanity. 

Look deeper yet: mark 'midst the wave-blurred mass
In lines distinct in colors clear defined
The typic groups and figures of mankind.
Behold within the cool and liquid glass
Bright child-folk sporting with smooth yellow shells
Astride of dolphins leaping up to kiss
Fair mother-faces. From the vast abyss
How joyously their thought-free laughter wells!
Some slumber in grim caverns unafraid
Lulled by the overwhelming water's sound
And some make mouths at dragons undismayed.
Oh dauntless innocence! The gulfs profound
Recho strangely with their ringing glee
And with wise mermaids' plaintive melody.

What do the sea-nymphs in that coral cave?
With wondering eyes their supple forms they bend
O'er something rarely beautiful. They lend
Their lithe white arms and through the golden wave
They lift it tenderly. Oh blinding sight!
A naked radiant goddess tranced in sleep
Full-limbed voluptuous 'neath the mantling sweep
Of auburn locks that kiss her ankles white!
Upward they bear her chanting low and sweet:
The clinging waters part before their way
Jewels of flame are dancing 'neath their feet.
Up in the sunshine on soft foam they lay
Their precious burden and return forlorn.
Oh bliss! oh anguish! Mortals Love is born!

Hark! from unfathomable deeps a dirge
Swells sobbing through the melancholy air:
Where love has entered Death is also there.
The wail outrings the chafed tumultuous surge
Ocean and earth the illimitable skies
Prolong one note a mourning for the dead
The cry of souls not to be comforted.
What piercing music! Funeral visions rise
And send the hot tears raining down our cheek.
We see the silent grave upon the hill
With its lone lilac-bush. O heart be still!
She will not rise she will not stir nor speak.
Surely the unreturning dead are blest.
Ring on sweet dirge and knell us to our rest!

Upon the silver beach the undines dance
With interlinking arms and flying hair
Like polished marble gleam their limbs left bare
Upon their virgin rites pale moonbeams glance.
Softer the music! for their foam-bright feet
Print not the moist floor where they trip their round:
Affrighted they will scatter at a sound
Leap in their cool sea-chambers nibly fleet
And we shall doubt that we have ever seen
While our sane eyes behold stray wreaths of mist
Shot with faint colors by the moon-rays kissed
Floating snow-soft snow-white where these had been.
Already look! the wave-washed sands are bare
And mocking laughter ripples through the air.

Divided 'twixt the dream-world and the real
We heard the waxing passion of the song
Soar as to scale the heavens on pinions strong.
Amidst the long-reverberant thunder-peal
Against the rain-blurred square of light the head
Of the pale poet at the lyric keys
Stood boldly cut absorbed in reveries
While over it keen-bladed lightnings played.
"Rage on wild storm!" the music seemed to sing:
"Not all the thunders of thy wrath can move
The soul that's dedicate to worshipping
Eternal Beauty everlasting Love."
No more! the song was ended and behold
A rainbow trembling on a sky of gold!

Forth in the sunlit rain-bathed air we stepped
Sweet with the dripping grass and flowering vine
And saw through irised clouds the pale sun shine.
Back o'er the hills the rain-mist slowly crept
Like a transparent curtain's silvery sheen
And fronting us the painted bow was arched
Whereunder the majestic cloud-shapes marched:
In the wet yellow light the dazzling green
Of lawn and bush and tree seemed stained with blue.
Our hearts o'erflowed with peace. With smiles we spake
Of partings in the past of courage new
Of high achievement of the dreams that make
A wonder and a glory of our days
And all life's music but a hymn of praise. 

Paris from throats of iron silver brass
Joy-thundering cannon blent with chiming bells
And martial strains the full-voiced pan swells.
The air is starred with flags the chanted mass
Throngs all the churches yet the broad streets swarm
With glad-eyed groups who chatter laugh and pass
In holiday confusion class with class.
And over all the spring the sun-floods warm!
In the Imperial palace that March morn
The beautiful young mother lay and smiled
For by her side just breathed the Prince her child
Heir to an empire to the purple born
Crowned with the Titan's name that stirs the heart
Like a blown clarion--one more Bonaparte.

Born to the purple lying stark and dead
Transfixed with poisoned spears beneath the sun
Of brazen Africa! Thy grave is one
Fore-fated youth (on whom were visited
Follies and sins not thine) whereat the world
Heartless howe'er it be will pause to sing
A dirge to breathe a sigh a wreath to fling
Of rosemary and rue with bay-leaves curled.
Enmeshed in toils ambitious not thine own
Immortal loved boy-Prince thou tak'st thy stand
With early doomed Don Carlos hand in hand
With mild-browed Arthur Geoffrey's murdered son.
Louis the Dauphin lifts his thorn-ringed head
And welcomes thee his brother 'mongst the dead. 

So Calchas on the sacred Palatine
You thought of Mopsus and o'er wastes of sea
A flower brought your message. I divine
(Through my deep art) the kindly mockery
That played about your lips and in your eyes
Plucking the frail leaf while you dreamed of home.
Thanks for the silent greeting! I shall prize
Beyond June's rose the scentless flower of Rome.
All the Campagna spreads before my sight
The mouldering wall the Caesars' tombs unwreathed
Rome and the Tiber and the yellow light
Wherein the honey-colored blossom breathed.
But most I thank it--egoists that we be!
For proving then and there you thought of me. 

There was a man who watched the river flow
Past the huge town one gray November day.
Round him in narrow high-piled streets at play
The boys made merry as they saw him go
Murmuring half-loud with eyes upon the stream
The immortal screed he held within his hand.
For he was walking in an April land
With Faust and Helen. Shadowy as a dream
Was the prose-world the river and the town.
Wild joy possessed him
through enchanted skies
He saw the cranes of Ibycus swoop down.
He closed the page he lifted up his eyes
Lo--a black line of birds in wavering thread
Bore him the greetings of the deathless dead!

this man is neither simple sensuous nor impassioned
therefore he is not a poet")
No man had ever heard a nightingale
When once a keen-eyed naturalist was stirred
To study and define--what is a bird
To classify by rote and book nor fail
To mark its structure and to note the scale
Whereon its song might possibly be heard.
Thus far no farther
--so he spake the word.
When of a sudden--hark the nightingale!
Oh deeper higher than he could divine
That all-unearthly untaught strain! He saw
The plain brown warbler unabashed. "Not mine"
(He cried) "the error of this fatal flaw.
No bird is this it soars beyond my line
Were it a bird 'twould answer to my law." 

When the vexed hubbub of our world of gain
Roars round about me as I walk the street
The myriad noise of Traffic and the beat
Of Toil's incessant hammer the fierce strain
Of struggle hand to hand and brain to brain
Ofttimes a sudden dream my sense will cheat
The gaudy shops the sky-piled roofs retreat
And all at once I stand enthralled again
Within a marble minster over-seas.
I watch the solemn gold-stained gloom that creeps
To kiss an alabaster tomb where sleeps
A lady 'twixt two knights' stone effigies
And every day in dusky glory steeps
Their sculptured slumber of five centuries 

Not while the fever of the blood is strong
The heart throbs loud the eyes are veiled no less
With passion than with tears the Muse shall bless
The poet-sould to help and soothe with song.
Not then she bids his trembling lips express
The aching gladness the voluptuous pain.
Life is his poem then
flesh sense and brain
One full-stringed lyre attuned to happiness.
But when the dream is done the pulses fail
The day's illusion with the day's sun set
He lonely in the twilight sees the pale
Divine Consoler featured like Regret
Enter and clasp his hand and kiss his brow.
Then his lips ope to sing--as mine do now. 

Therefore I dare reveal my private woe
The secret blots of my imperfect heart
Nor strive to shrink or swell mine own desert
Nor beautify nor hide. For this I know
That even as I am thou also art.
Thou past heroic forms unmoved shalt go
To pause and bide with me to whisper low:
"Not I alone am weak not I apart
Must suffer struggle conquer day by day.
Here is my very cross by strangers borne
Here is my bosom-sin wherefrom I pray
Hourly deliverance--this my rose my thorn.
This woman my soul's need can understand
Stretching o'er silent gulfs her sister hand." 

As the blind Milton's memory of light
The deaf Beethoven's phantasy of tone
Wroght joys for them surpassing all things known
In our restricted sphere of sound and sight--
So while the glaring streets of brick and stone
Vix with heat noise and dust from morn till night
I will give rein to Fancy taking flight
From dismal now and here and dwell alone
With new-enfranchised senses. All day long
Think ye 't is I who sit 'twixt darkened walls
While ye chase beauty over land and sea?
Uplift on wings of some rare poet's song
Where the wide billow laughs and leaps and falls
I soar cloud-high free as the winds are free.

Who grasps the substance? who 'mid shadows strays?
He who within some dark-bright wood reclines
'Twixt sleep and waking where the needled pines
Have cushioned al his couch with soft brown sprays?
He notes not how the living water shines
Trembling along the cliff a flickering haze
Brimming a wine-bright pool nor lifts his gaze
To read the ancient wonders and the signs.
Does he possess the actual or do I
Who paint on air more than his sense receives
The glittering pine-tufts with closed eyes behold
Breathe the strong resinous perfume see the sky
Quiver like azure flame between the leaves
And open unseen gates with key of gold?

The fervent pale-faced Mother ere she sleep
Looks out upon the zigzag-lighted square
The beautiful bare trees the blue night-air
The revelation of the star-strewn deep
World above world and heaven over heaven.
Between the tree-tops and the skies her sight
Rests on a steadfast ruddy-shining light
High in the tower an earthly star of even.
Hers is the faith in saints' and angels' power
And mediating love--she breathes a prayer
For yon tired watcher in the gray old tower.
He the shrewd skeptic poet unaware
Feels comforted and stilled and knows not whence
Falls this unwonted peace on heart and sense.

Well-nigh two thousand years hath Israel
Suffered the scorn of man for love of God
Endured the outlaw's ban the yoke the rod
With perfect patience. Empires rose and fell
Around him Nebo was adored and Bel
Edom was drunk with victory and trod
On his high places while the sacred sod
Was desecrated by the infidel.
His faith proved steadfast without breach or flaw
But now the last renouncement is required.
His truth prevails his God is God his Law
Is found the wisdom most to be desired.
Not his the glory! He maligned misknown
Bows his meek head and says "Thy will be done!"
Paul let thy faces from the canvas look
Haply less clearly than Pietro's can
Less lively than in tints of Titian
Or him who both the bay-wreath-chaplets took:
Yet shalt thou therefore have no harsh rebuke
Of me whom while with eager eye I scan
O'er painted pomps of Brera and Vatican
The first delight thou gavest ne'er forsook.
For in thy own Verona long ago
Before one masterpiece of cool arcades
I made a friend
and such a friend was rare.
For him I love thy velvet's glorious show
Thy sheens of silk 'twixt marble balustrades
Thy breathing-space and full translucent air. 

Loved for themselves too. Oft as I behold
Adown the curtain'd gallery's sumptuous gloom
A separate daylight shining in the room
There find I still thy groupings manifold
Of holy clerks of nobles grave and bold
Swart slaves brave gallants maidens in their bloom
With what of Persian and Ligarian loom
May best consort with marble dome and gold:
There find thy dog whose teeth Time's teeth defy
To raze the name from less enduring leaves
Of loved Canossa: there in cynic ease
Thy monkey: and beneath the pearly sky
See lovely ladies wave their handkerchiefs
And lend sweet looks from airy balconies. 

They err who say this long-withdrawing line
Of palace-fronts Palladian this brocade
From looms of Genoa this gold-inlaid
Resplendent plate of Milan that combine
To spread soft lustre through the grand design
Show but in fond factitious masquerade
The actual feast by leper Simon made
For that great Guest of old in Palestine.
Christ walks amongst us still
at liberal table
Scorns not to sit: no sorrowing Magdalene
But of these dear feet kindly gets her kiss
Now even as then
and thou be honorable
Who by the might of thy majestic scene
Bringest down that age and minglest it with this.

At last 'tis gone the fever of the day--
Thank God there comes an end to everything
Under the night-cloud's deepened shadowing
The noises of the city drift away
Thro' sultry streets and alleys
and the grey
Fogs round the great cathedral rise and cling.
I long and long--but no desire will bring
Against my face the keen wind salt with spray.
O far away green waves your voices call
Your cool lips kiss the wild and weedy shore
And out upon the sea-line sails are brown--
White sea-birds crying hover--soft shades fall
Deep waters dimple round the dripping oar
And last rays light the little fishing town.

Why are your songs all wild and bitter sad
As funeral dirges with the orphans' cries?
Each night since first the world was made hath had
A sequent day to laugh it down the skies.
Chant us a glee to make our hearts rejoice
Or seal in silence this unmanly moan.
My friend I have no power to rule my voice--
A spirit lifts me where I lie alone
And thrills me into song by its own laws
That which I feel but seldom know indeed
Tempering the melody it could not cause.
The bleeding heart cannot forever bleed
Inwardly solely
on the wan lips too
Dark blood will bubble ghastly into view.

Striving to sing glad songs I but attain
Wild discords sadder than Grief's saddest tune
As if an owl with his harsh screech should strain
To over-gratulate a thrush of June.
The nightingale upon its thorny spray
Finds inspiration in the sullen dark
The kindling dawn the world-wide joyous day
Are inspiration to the soaring lark
The seas are silent in the sunny calm
Their anthem surges in the tempest boom
The skies outroll no solemn thunder psalm
Till they have clothed themselves with clouds of gloom.
My mirth can laugh and talk but cannot sing
My grief finds harmonies in everything. 

The Church stands there beyond the orchard-blooms:
How yearningly I gaze upon its spire!
Lifted mysterious through the twilight glooms
Dissolving in the sunset's golden fire
Or dim as slender incense morn by morn
Ascending to the blue and open sky.
For ever when my heart feels most forlorn
It murmurs to me with a weary sigh
How sweet to enter in to kneel and pray
With all the others whom we love so well!
All disbelief and doubt might pass away
All peace float to us with its Sabbath bell.
Conscience replies There is but one good rest
Whose head is pillowed upon Truth's pure breast.

Here sleep'st thou Man of Soul! Thy spirit flown
How dark and tenantless its desert clay!
Cold is that heart which throbbed at sorrow's moan
Untuned that tongue that charmed the social day.
Where now the Wit by generous roughness graced?
Or Friendship's accent kindling as it fell?
Or Bounty's stealing foot whose step untraced
Had watched pale Want and stored her famished cell?
Alas! 'tis all thou art! whose vigorous mind
Inspiring Force to Truth and Feeling gave
Whose rich resources equal power combined
The gay to brighten and instruct the grave!
Farewell! Adieu! Sweet peace thy vigils keep
For Pilgrim Virtue sojourns here to weep.

Am I not all alone?--The world is still
In passionless slumber--not a tree but feels
The far-pervading hush and softer steals
The misty river by. Yon broad bare hill
Looks coldly up to heaven and all the stars
Seem eyes deep fixed in silence as if bound
By some unearthly spell--no other sound
But the owl's unfrequent moan.--Their airy cars
The winds have stationed on the mountain peaks.
Am I not all alone?--A spirit speaks
From the abyss of night "Not all alone:
Nature is round thee with her banded powers
And ancient genius haunts thee in these hours
Mind and its kingdom now are all thine own."

Whence? Whither? Where?--a taper point of light
My life and world--the infinite around
A sea not even highest thought can sound
A formless void
unchanging endless night.
In vain the struggling spirit aims its flight
To the empyrean seen as is a star
Sole glimmering through the hazy night afar--
In vain it beats its wings with daring might.
What yonder gleams? What heavenly shapes arise
From out the bodiless waste? Behold the dawn
Sent from on high! Uncounted ages gone
Burst full and glorious on my wondering eyes:
Sun-clear the world around and far away
A boundless future sweeps in golden day. 

South Africa thou land of many dreams
Whose children do but scanty harvests reap
Whose many dreams have set again in sleep
Though still one glowing crop in sunlight gleams
Thou land of unfulfill'd forgotten schemes
Of pledge and promise--a pathetic heap
Yet yet our hold upon thee will we keep.
Thy havens veld and kopjes and thy streams!
We care not howsoe'er thy foes malign
But those the brood thou fosterest we scorn
Who only love the gifts that make them thine
And honour not the land where they were born:
Thy children round thy neck will join their hands
And rise to make thee blessd among lands. 

And here where throbs amid a silent waste
A myriad-hammer'd hum whose Siren sound
Is heard re-echoing the world around
Luring with golden hope who hither haste
Guided by Fortune or by Furies chased
To lose again such riches as they found
While still the patient worker wins the ground
Where a new nation's future life is based--
Even here is heard a voice to swell the praise
Of thy loved England who did mother thee
And thy world-moving human pageantry
Of thee too on whose glorious brow the bays
Will yet be green when in dim ons to come
Poets that sing of England will be dumb.

From sky to sky the veld vast tawny bare
Surrounds me like a vision in a dream
Mysterious and unreal: no flower or stream
No friendly smoke or stack is anywhere
E'en God's own living creatures are not there--
No bird no bough whereon to perch no theme
Whereof to sing
to me there only seem
The sun sky veld the light immaculate air.--
Whose great majestic archicraft did raise
This blue-domed temple without priest or psalm
Without a tone of all the diapase
With unascending incense without balm
Without a worshipper in prayer or praise
Mute with an incommunicable calm? 

With shimmering shoulders on the eastern steep
Came Dawn grey breathless in pursuit of Night:
His gold and sable mantle in his flight
Her trembling outstretch'd fingers could not keep.
A touch upon the folded wing of Sleep
And he too sighing slipp'd beyond her sight.
Then did her body on the Day alight
And glow exhausted in his bosom deep.
So Love with vain endeavour did pursue
A phantom fleet or one who loved him not
But ever fled from his approaching view--
A visage shunn'd regretted unforgot
And met with her whom only he could win
Waiting patient and warm to take him in. 

I lay beneath the Afric stars awake
While all the neighbour-noise of city slept
And all the solace of the silence crept
Into the turmoil of my spirit's ache
And this worn heart whereon life's billows break
Was smoothed
the futile cares o'er which had wept
These weary eyes where careless joys had leapt
A slow and sweet transfiguring grace did take.
With wide lids open to the glorious night
With soul and sense entranquill'd by the calm
I lay awake while in procession bright
The holy-hymning stars with spheric psalm
Bedew'd my inmost being with delight--
Yea with the fragrance of enduring balm.

Hail! land of drifting cloud and wooded mold
Thy fairy scenes seem conjured by the hand
Of wizard king. Thy hills majestic stand
Aloft with time-bronzed brows seard and old
And heavenward fling their nodding peaks on high
The breezy zephyrs rush careering free
The eagle waves his wing of liberty.
Here Nature reigns in grand sublimity
Far through the southern haze Old Ocean gleams
Silvered with sunlight foam and mounfully
Heaves his wild arms--with words inspired he seems
Mutt'ring a prologue to Eternity.
God of my soul on earth such scenes we find
Guiding from them to Thee the human mind.

Perhaps you did not know how bright last night
Especially above your seaside door
Was all the marvelous starlit sky and wore
White harmonies of very shining light.
Perhaps you did not want to seek the sight
Of that remembered rapture any more.--
But then at least you must have heard the shore
Roar with reverberant voices thro' the night.
Those stars were lit with longing of my own
And the ocean's moan was full of my own pain.
Yet doubtless it was well for both of us
You did not come but left me there alone.
I hardly ought to see you much again
And stars we know are often dangerous. 

The things that one grows tired of--O be sure
They are only foolish artificial things!
Can a bird ever tire of having wings?
And I so long as life and sense endure
(Or brief be they!) shall nevermore inure
My heart to the recurrence of the springs
Of the gray dawns the gracious evenings
The infinite wheeling stars. A wonder pure
Must ever well within me to behold
Venus decline
or great Orion whose belt
Is studded with three nails of burning gold
Ascend the winter heaven. Who never felt
This wondering joy may yet be good or great:
But envy him not: he is not fortunate. 

Thankful my country be to him who first
Brought hither from Australia oversea
Sapling or seed of the undeciduous tree
Whose grave and sombre foliage fears no burst
Of heat from summer-naked heavens nor thirst
Though all the winter is rainless and the bee
Starves finding not a blossom. Patiently
The great roots delve and feel though deep-immersed
Some layer of ancient moisture and the leaves
Perish not hanging pointed in the sky.
To see these lofty trunks gray-barked and broad
Wall with clear shade a long white southern road
I have been as one devoted who receives
An impulse or a promise from on high. 

It rained three autumn days then close to frost
Under clear starlight the night shivering was.
The dawn rose cold and colorless as glass
And when we wakened rains and clouds were lost.
The ocean surged and shouted stormy-tossed.
I went down to companion him. Alas
What faint voice by the way? The sudden grass
Cried with thin lips as I the valley crossed
Saying blade by blade "Although the warm sweet rain
Awakened us this world is all too cold.
We never dreamed it thus."--"Your champion bold
Is risen" I said
"he in an hour or twain
Will comfort you." I passed. Above the dune
Stood the wan splendorless daylight-waning moon. 

When I behold the greatest and most wise
Fall out of heaven wings not by pride struck numb
Like Satan's but to gain some humbler crumb
Of pittance from penurious granaries
And when I see under each new disguise
The same cowardice of custom the same dumb
Devil that drove our Wordswroth to become
Apologist of kings and priests and lies
And how a man may find in all he loathes
Contentment after all and so endear it
By cowardly craft it grows his inmost own
Then I renew my faith with firmer oaths
And bind with more tremendous vows a spirit
That often fallen never has lain prone.

Time weighs the destinies that men befall
Bestows new laurels turns the green to sere.
Too oft no honors soothe the poet here:
But when his Shade has passed into the Hall
Of Death we hear Fame's trumpet sound through all
The avenues of this terrestrial sphere
A blare that stirs no more the withered ear
But makes men pause to list the lofty call
To pay full homage to a slighted name
And genius long o'erlooked with fire acclaim.
Thus melancholy taciturn forlorn
Poe went his way through thorns and rocks and sand:
Lo! Fortune gave him then her empty hand
But for him dead she pours her amplest horn.

After long lapse of years I tread again
The little frontier town's familiar ways
And on the mingled new and old I gaze
With joy that strives against a surging pain.
I see old friends worn with life's struggle and strain:
The little children of those far off days
Bring their own broods for me to pet and praise
And ah! how many a face I seek in vain.
Till as in dream I wander to and fro
With ghosts of dead companions at my side.
"Why art thou spared to live?" they murmur low:
"Why shouldst thou see the light while we abide
In darkness?" O beloved! your taunts forbear:
Soon I with you the sunless house must share.

As yearning currents from the trackless snows
And silent Polar seas unceasing sweep
To South to North and linger not where leap
Red fires from glistening cones--nor where the rose
Has triumph on the snow-fed Paramos
In upper air--nor yet where lifts the deep
Its silver Atollis on whose bosoms sleep
The purple sponges
and as in repose
Meeting at last they sink upon the breast
Of that sweet tropic sea whose spicy balms
And central heat have drawn them to its arms--
So soul seeks soul unsatisfied represt
Till in Love's tropic met they sink to rest
At peace forever in the "Zone of Calms."

Along Ancona's hills the shimmering heat
A tropic tide of air with ebb and flow
Bathes all the fields of wheat until they glow
Like flashing seas of green which toss and beat
Around the vines. The poppies lithe and fleet
Seem running fiery torchment to and fro
To mark the shore.
That they are there. He walks with heavy feet
Counting the bread and wine by autumn's gain
But I--I smile to think that days remain
Perhaps to me in which though bread be sweet
No more and red wine warm my blood in vain
I shall be glad remembering how the fleet
Lithe poppies ran like torchmen with the wheat. 

That he is dead the sons of kings are glad
And in their beds the tyrants sounder sleep.
Now he is dead his martyrdom will reap
Late harvest of the palms it should have had
In life. Too late the tardy lands are sad.
His unclaimed crown in secret they will keep
For ages while in chains they vainly weep
And vainly grope to find the roads he bade
Them take. O glorious soul! there is no dearth
Of worlds. There must be many better worth
Thy presence and thy leadership than this.
No doubt on some great sun to-day thy birth
Is for a race the dawn of Freedom's bliss
Which but for thee it might for ages miss.

There is no sun no bloom
a cold wind strips 
The bitter foam from off the wave where dips 
No more thy prow
the eyes are hostile eyes
The gold is hidden
vain thy tears and cries
O Love poor Love why didst thou burn thy ships?

O patient shore thou canst not go to meet
Thy love the restless sea how comfortest
Thou all thy loneliness? Art thou at rest
When loosing his strong arms from round thy feet
He turns away? Know'st thou however sweet
That other shore may be that to thy breast
He must return? And when in sterner test
He folds thee to a heart which does not beat
Wraps thee in ice and gives no smile no kiss
To break long wintry days still dost thou miss
Naught from thy trust? Still wait unfaltering
The higher warmer waves which leap in spring?
O sweet wise shore to be so satisfied!
O heart learn from the shore! Love has a tide!

That they are brown no man will dare to say
He knows. And yet I think that no man's look
Ever those depths of light and shade forsook
Until their gentle pain warned him away.
Of all sweet things I know but one which may
Be likened to her eyes.
Of some green field the water of a brook
Makes lingering whirling eddy in its way
Round soft drowned leaves
and in a flash of sun
They turn to gold until the ripples run
Now brown now yellow changing as by some
Swift spell.
The saints. But this I know my Paradise
Will mean the resurrection of her eyes.

The thing I count and hold as fealty--
The only fealty to give or take--
Doth never reckoning keep and coldly make
Bond to itself with this or that to be
Content as wage
the wage unpaid to free
Its hand from service and its love forsake
Its faith cast off as one from dreams might wake
At morn and smiling watch the vision flee.
Such fealty is treason in disguise
Who trusts it his death-warrant sealed doth bear.
Love looks at it with angry wondering eyes
Love knows the face true fealty doth wear
The pulse that beats unchanged by alien air
Or hurts or crimes until the loved one dies.

As one who hears beside a quiet shore
When seas are stilled and winds and waves are spent
Faint murmurs of that vanished continent
Whose storied plains reach out on ocean's floor
O'er which the dark pulsating waters pour
With sounds of bells by the swaying flood impent
Tolling now lone and low now full and blent
Then lost again amid the surfy roar
So through the silent spaces of the dark
When lulls the world-hum on the muffled blast
There strays a tender chord of some far strain
From time when love was sweet and hope not vain
And pulses throb and with dear longing mark
The distant echoes of a buried past.

Old Age! I harbor thee a welcome guest:
Thou mad'st me sage if aught I am and skilled
To learn life's broadest arts. No more I build
Vain temples by forgetful Fame unblest
Nor madly brave some luring phantom-quest.
I count no fretting hopes yet unfulfilled
But know with passionate youth's wild tremor stilled
The lulling cadences of pulseless rest.
The tide of time flows on still as a dream
Its margin crowned with calm and presage-spanned.
The years enrich me as a silt-fraught stream
Laden with opulent spoil from many a field
Gilds with its golden hoard some mellow strand.
Ah would this lustrum might full fruitage yield!

In summer's dreary ear as suns go by
Whose yellow beams are dulled with langorous motes
The deep vibrations of the cosmic notes
Are as the voice of those that prophesy.
Her spirit kindles and her filmy eye!
In haste the fluttering robe whose glory floats
In pictured folds her eager soul devotes--
Lo she with her winged harper sweeps the sky!
Splendours of blossomed time like poppies red
Distil dull slumbers o'er the engaged soul
And thrall with sensuous pomp its azured dower
Till roused by vibrant touch from the unseen Power
The spirit keen freed from the painted dead
On wings mounts up to reach its living Goal. 

The fitful rustle of the sea-green leaves
Tells of the homeward tide and free-blown air
Upturns thy gleaming leafage like a share--
A silvery foam thy bosom as it heaves!
O peasant tree the regal Bay doth bare
Its throbbing breast to ebbs and floods--and grieves!
O slender fronds pale as a moonbeam weaves
Joy woke your strain that trembles to despair!
Willow of Normandy say do the birds
Of Motherland plain in thy sea-chant low
Or voice of those who brought thee in the ships
To tidal vales of Acadie? Vain words!
Grief unassuaged makes moan that Gaspereau
Bore on its flood the fleet with iron lips! 

Dim name yet grand that ever winks serene
In the red fagot's light and like a ghost
Hovers above these raucous tides this coast
Wreathing weird webs of arrowy salts and keen!
Under the black-blue night's unrolld screen
The loon is calling to the fiery host
And yet no answer comes to keep thy boast--
Far years their mellow thunders roll between.
Divinest of the red man's race and name
Fullness of Hiawatha's dawning day
Giver of laws priest prophet all confest!
Thou'lt come again appeased thy wrath and shame
Thy speed in all thy limbs up yonder Bay
In white canoe from out the naked west.

I cannot reach thee
we are far so far
Apart who are so dear!
Love be it so
Else we might press so close we should not grow.
One doth deny even this so swet a bar
For fear our souls' true shape should suffer mar.
Ah surface-sundered yet do we not know
A hidden union in the deeps below?
An intertwining where the strong roots are?
Wise husbandmen plant thus sweethearta space
Between the trees
but after soon or late
High in the sunny air their spreading boughs
Reach forth and meet. In some celestial place
When we two are grown tall and fair and straight
We shall clasp hands againif God allows.

From out eternal silence do we come
Into eternal silence do we go
For was there not a time and swift or slow
Must come again when all this world's loud hum
Was naught to us and shall again grow dumb
Through all eternity?--Between two low
Dark stony portals with much empty show
Of tinkling brass and sounding fife and drum
The endless Caravan of Life moves on
Or whence or whither to what destiny
But He who dwells beyond the farthest dawn
Knows yet reveals not evermore even He
In silence wrapt for all the thunders roll
Save for His deathless message to our soul! 

"Give me the wine of happiness" I cried
"The bread of life! O ye benign unknown
Immortal powers! I crave them for my own
I am athirst I will not be denied
Though Hell were up in arms!" No sound replied
But turning back to my rude board and lone
My soul confounded there beheld a stone
Pale water in a shallow cup beside!
With gushing tears in utter hopelessness
I stood and gazed. Then rose a voice that spoke
"God gave this too and what He gives will bless!"
And 'neath the hands that trembling took and broke
Lo truly a sweet miracle divine
The stone turned bread the water ruby wine!

I love thee O thou Beautiful and Strong
Invisible comrade mute sweet company
More dear than friend or lover! But to thee
My fondest hopes my fairest dreams belong
Forevermore! Amid the world's gay throng
I yearn for thy soft arms that lovingly
Soothe all the fevered wounds once fretting me.
At thy deep heart there springs the fount of song
Whose drops shall cool my burning lips athirst
At thy swift beck within my sight arise
(Their bonds of silence and dim darkness burst)
All my beloved dead with shining eyes
At thy blest hand by starlit paths untrod
My soul draws near unto the face of God!

Ay and thee too who wield'st a power divine
Greater than loudest speech or fairest lay!
The dead millions on millions own thy sway
In realms where suns to rise no more decline.
Thine is the lover's sweetest rapture thine
the deepest cup of grief or joy that aye
The lips of mortal tasted thine yet stay!
How may I name thee with what sound so fine
It shall not snap thy life's frail golden thread?
O Solitude and Silence bid me learn
A little of your greatness! Long are fled
The lesser gods of life now let me turn
To ye alone to ye in worship come
The accents of this faltering tongue grown dumb!

Sports of the field!--deadly or maiming blow
Aimed at a gentle bird!--the timid hare
From her half slumber in warm brake to scare
And drive her over the track-betraying snow
To death by chase embittered--from the bow
The rook not yet of strength to cleave the air
To slaughter trembling on the nest!--to tear
The bowels of the fish deliberate slow
Play with the agonizing worm!--to find
Amusement when the dauntless fox is torn
By furious dogs--or when the beauteous hind
Winged by her unavailing fears is borne
From yells of hounds and horn--or the stag dies
With silent tear!--Thus man enjoys earth water skies!

I love: and day by day as absent pine
Barr'd from her sight and converse whom I love:
And yet the fair by plighted vows is mine
Mine by affection far those vows above
Mine by possession
O the bliss divine
Nor can my heart her constancy reprove.
Why does she then society decline
With me me whose desires never from her remove?
O night return and give her to my arms!
Full of constraint and tedious is the day.
Though the same roof enshrine her wedded charms
Though on my board beam her benignant ray.--
O haste the hour when private and alone
Joys only she can give shall be my own!

Dear mystic circlet!.... orbs like thine are found
Within their hallowd empire to enclose
Such unimagin'd joys such cares and woes
As still in hearts most sensible abound.
O since for me bliss animates thy mound
Few be thy cares to her:--and only those
Whence sympathy more sweet and tender flows
And anguish with increas'd delight is crown'd.
Dear circlet!--while with love and awe I gaze
On thy pure gold of constancy the sign
Ah prompt if once imagination strays
Recall my wedded thoughts to their blest shrine:
Nor look unkind nor passion's angry sound
E'er touch her gentle heart who bears from me thy round!

"Just like love the balmy rose:"
For ah their sweets have many a thorn
And tempests chase their early morn
Serenely calm each rarely glows.
But when enchanting music flows
Then pure and full delight is born
And anxious care and woe forlorn
Are lull'd into divine repose!--
Just like love blest music breathes:
But with her bliss no pang enwreaths.--
Like love ere death or fear or pain
Invaded those primval bowers
Where the first parents hail'd the reign
Of harmony mid angel-powers. 

Thou awful sea!--upon this shingly beach
Of Aldborough I pace:--my gazing eye
Thy world of waters lost in the dim sky
Admiring and thy echoing waves that teach
In voice of thunder more than tongue can preach
The knell of ages past and passing by
And claim their ancient Empire o'er the dry
And solid Earth
each animating each.
Of towns long sunk o'er which thy wild waves roar
Of sea to land of land to ocean turn'd
I muse: and mourn that who could amplest pour
Homeric tones on thy resounding shore
Porson is dead!--That sea of Grecian lore
Unbounded in the abyss of fate inurn'd. 

Nature is Music
--and the mystic tale
No fable to the well-attempered ear
Which sings that harmony tunes every sphere
In perfect concert:--though to mortals frail
Too fine the spirit of the ethereal gale
To reach this seat of earthly hope and fear
When immortality removes the veil
Then we shall see indeed and truly hear.
Thou wondrous visitant! who hast so late
Approacht the sun and now returning bright
In radiant glory from that source of light
In diapason voicest forth Heaven's state
A chord thou art of that celestial lyre
To which through countless worlds resounds the angelic choir! 

Thou who hast amply quaff'd the Muse's rill
And bath'd thy locks in pure poetic dews
Canst thou disparage the Petrarcan Muse
To her sweet voice deaf cold fastidious still!
Examine if unprejudic'd the will
Coleridge which can to her high praise refuse
And of perverseness her fair laws accuse
Which through the enchanted ear the bosom fill.
Her various cadenc'd regularity
He who o'er epic heights hath soar'd sublime
And magic Spenser lov'd. The mighty dead
Have followers haply to posterity
Not unendear'd.--O scorn not these who led
In many a graceful maze the full harmonious rhyme. 

Ye whose aspirings court the Muse of lays
"Severest of those orders which belong
Distinct and separate to Delphic song"
Why shun the sonnet's undulating maze?
Or why its name boast of Petrarcan days
Assume its rules disown'd?--whom from the throng
The Muse selects their ear the charm obeys
Of its full harmony:--they fear to wrong
The sonnet by adorning with a name
Of that distinguisht import lays though sweet
Yet not in magic texture taught to meet
Of that so varied and peculiar frame.
O think to vindicate its genuine praise
Those it becomes whose lyre a favoring impulse sways. 

At twenty-five I cast my horoscope
And saw a future with all good things rife --
A firm assurance of eternal life
In worlds beyond and in this world the hope
Of deathless fame. But now my sun doth slope
To setting and the toil of sordid strife
The care of food and raiment child and wife
Have dimmed and narrowed all my spirit's scope.
Eternal life -- a river gulphed in sands!
Undying fame -- a rainbow lost in clouds!
What hope of immortality remains
But this: "Some soul that loves and understands
Shall save thee from the darkness that enshrouds"
And this: "Thy blood shall course in others' veins"?

More than a fleshly immortality
Is mine. Though I myself return again
To dust my qualities of heart and brain
Of soul and spirit shall not cease to be.
I view them growing day by day in thee
My first-begotten son
I trace them plain
In you my daughters
and I count it gain
Myself renewed and multiplied to see.
But sadness mingles with my selfish joy
At thought of what you may be called to bear.
Oh passionate maid! Oh glad impulsive boy!
Your father's sad experience you must share --
Self-torture the unfeeling world's annoy
Gross pleasure fierce exultance grim despair! 

A Sonnet is a moment's monument--
Memorial from the Soul's eternity
To one dead deathless hour. Look that it be
Whether for lustral rite or dire portent
Of its own arduous fulness reverent:
Carve it in ivory or in ebony
As Day or Night may rule
and let Time see
Its flowering crest impearled and orient.
A Sonnet is a coin: its face reveals
The soul--its converse to what Power 'tis due:--
Whether for tribute to the august appeals
Of Life or dower in Love's high retinue
It serve or 'mid the dark wharf's cavernous breath
In Charon's palm it pay the toll to Death. 

What smouldering senses in death's sick delay
Or seizure of malign vicissitude
Can rob this body of honour or denude
This soul of wedding-raiment worn to-day?
For lo! even now my lady's lips did play
With these my lips such consonant interlude
As laurelled Orpheus longed for when he wooed
The half-drawn hungering face with that last lay.
I was a child beneath her touch--a man
When breast to breast we clung even I and she--
A spirit when her spirit looked through me--
A god when all our life-breath met to fan
Our life-blood till love's emulous ardours ran
Fire within fire desire in deity. 

At length their long kiss severed with sweet smart:
And as the last slow sudden drops are shed
From sparkling eaves when all the storm has fled
So singly flagged the pulses of each heart.
Their bosoms sundered with the opening start
Of married flowers to either side outspread
From the knit stem
yet still their mouths burnt red
Fawned on each other where they lay apart.
Sleep sank them lower than the tide of dreams
And their dreams watched them sink and slid away.
Slowly their souls swam up again through gleams
Of watered light and dull drowned waifs of day
Till from some wonder of new woods and streams
He woke and wondered more: for there she lay. 

Your hands lie open in the long fresh grass--
The finger-points look through like rosy blooms:
Your eyes smile peace. The pasture gleams and glooms
'Neath billowing skies that scatter and amass.
All round our nest far as the eye can pass
Are golden kingcup-fields with silver edge
Where the cow-parsley skirts the hawthorn-hedge.
'Tis visible silence still as the hour-glass.
Deep in the sun-searched growths the dragon-fly
Hangs like a blue thread loosened from the sky:--
So this wing'd hour is dropt to us from above.
Oh! clasp we to our hearts for deathless dower
This close-companioned inarticulate hour
When twofold silence was the song of love.

Look in my face
my name is Might-have-been
I am also called No-more Too-late Farewell
Unto thine ear I hold the dead-sea shell
Cast up thy Life's foam-fretted feet between
Unto thine eyes the glass where that is seen
Which had Life's form and Love's but by my spell
Is now a shaken shadow intolerable
Of ultimate things unuttered the frail screen.
Mark me how still I am I But should there dart
One moment through thy soul the soft surprise
Of that winged Peace which lulls the breath of sighs
Then shalt thou see me smile and turn apart
Thy visage to mine ambush at thy heart
Sleepless with cold commemorative eyes.

Water for anguish of the solstice:--nay
But dip the vessel slowly--nay but lean
And hark how at its verge the wave sighs in
Reluctant. Hush! Beyond all depth away
The heat lies silent at the brink of day:
Now the hand trails upon the viol-string
That sobs and the brown faces cease to sing
Sad with the whole of pleasure. Whither stray
Her eyes now from whose mouth the slim pipes creep
And leave it pouting while the shadowed grass
Is cool against her naked side? Let be:--
Say nothing now unto her lest she weep
Nor name this ever. Be it as it was--
Life touching lips with Immortality.

Upon the beach I walked at eve alone
And listened to the moaning of the sea
And watched the sails that in the moonlight shone
As the horizon. Straightway unto me
There came a voice as from below the waves:
"The less'ning sail will soon be seen no more
And as I sweep thy footprints from the shore
Time mosses o'er a world of unknown graves.
And it is well. If men could not forget
With phantoms all the world would peopled be
The ghosts of buried joys their hearts would fret--
A flood of tears like blood would drown the sea.
Rail not at Time--the healer of thy woes--
As of those thou hast forgotten shall be thy last repose."

With eyes suffused and heart dissolved with sorrow
How often have I fled the realms of sleep
And sought not vainly from thy page to borrow
That which forbids or eye or heart to weep!
Thy Thanatopsis! fraught with tenderest feeling
Is like a June breeze to the ice-bound heart
To us thy humble followers revealing
The sage the seer the poet that thou art
Still roll "The Ages" still "Green River" flows
And odorous blossoms load the "Apple Tree"--
Into "The Lake" still fall the fleecy snows
And Nature everywhere doth speak of thee.
Oh for a poet's tongue to name thy name!
But does it matter? Thine is deathless fame. 

O Sea that to these grey and solemn shores
Dost pour thy plaint through all the circling years
I would that to my ever-listening ears
Some spirit might translate thy language! Roars
The wave that spends its force against the rocks
That its assaults deride
a giant's pain
It voices! Soft dost thou complain
By pebbly beach to Summer's fields and flocks.
Tell'st thou of cities hid beneath thy breast?
Of famed Atlantis known in story only?
Of sepulchres innumerable where rest
The wrecks of ages peacefully and lonely?
Tell why thou plaintest melancholy sea!
And the sea answers Hush it may not be.

The twilight shadows creep along the wall
Without the sobbing of the wind I hear
And from the vine-clad elm that marks the mere
The ivy leaves in crimson eddies fall.
Deeper and deeper grow the shades of night
And gazing in the fire to me appears
The form of one departed with the years--
The buried years of hope and faith and light.
"Oh that those lips had language"--would they tell
The old old story of the bygone days--
Ere on our heart the blighting shadow fell
And we henceforward followed parted ways?
I ask but as I ask the embers die--
The vision fades--and answer none have I.

Beauty and Joy live through the summer day
The morning rustles by my bed of dreams
In garments made of woven auroral beams
And toying zephyrs in the garden stray
Shaking the dews from each rose-weighted spray
Upon the crimson poppies burning lips.
A white-winged butterfly delighted sips
Of cooling golden wine his thirst to allay
The while he poises on the yellow brim
Of buttercups. And when the day is dim
And shadows flutter in the rising gale
And oak leaves tremble in the wood afar
Like falling flakes of gold--o'er night's dark rail
Pale seraphs lean each with a censer-star. 

A truce with cares and labours! I have cried
And traced the sweet winds to the barley field
To watch the strong browned reapers joyous wield
Their curved and twinkling sickles side by side.
And where the harvest valley opened wide
A breeze fell down among the rip'ning grain
Driving the golden waves across the plain
And dipping in the nooks where fieldlarks hide.
Brave with its gambol still it went until
It waved the loosestrifes' ribbons o'er the hill
And spilled the dazzling sunset from the flow'rs.
Within a forest then it hid at night
To waken when the morning filled the bow'rs
With fragrance and with floods of violet light.

Me let the world disparage and despise --
As one unfettered with its gilded chains
As one untempted by its sordid gains
Its pleasant vice its profitable lies
Let Justice blind and halt and maimed chastise
The rebel spirit surging in my veins
Let the Law deal me penalties and pains
And make me hideous in my neighbours' eyes.
But let me fall not in mine own esteem
By poor deceit or selfish greed debased.
Let me be clean from secret stain and shame
Know myself true though false as hell I seem --
Know myself worthy howsoe'er disgraced --
Know myself right though every tongue should blame. 

Alone! Alone! No beacon far or near!
No chart no compass and no anchor stay!
Like melting fog the mirage melts away
In all-surrounding darkness void and clear.
Drifting I spread vain hands and vainly peer
And vainly call for pilot -- weep and pray
Beyond these limits not the faintest ray
Shows distant coast whereto the lost may steer.
O what is life if we must hold it thus
As wind-blown sparks hold momentary fire?
What are these gifts without the larger boon?
O what is art or wealth or fame to us
Who scarce have time to know what we desire?
O what is love if we must part so soon?

And is the great cause lost beyond recall?
Have all the hopes of ages come to naught?
Is life no more with noble meaning fraught?
Is life but death and love its funeral pall?
Maybe. And still on bended knees I fall
Filled with a faith no preacher ever taught.
O God -- MY God -- by no false prophet wrought --
I believe still in despite of it all!
Let go the myths and creeds of groping men.
This clay knows naught -- the Potter understands.
I own that Power divine beyond my ken
And still can leave me in His shaping hands.
But O my God that madest me to feel
Forgive the anguish of the turning wheel!

The muses weep around their ancient seat
The streams of Stowey heave a piteous moan
The nightingales he loved sit mute and lone
And the sad Lars leave not their dumb retreat.
The dryads keep within their mossy cells
The flowers there open not at morn nor eve
The hills re-echo with a thousand knells
For he is gone for whom all shepherds grieve.
He made the sweetest Music of them all
And when he sang nor old nor young would stir
You could not even hear the waterfall
While he rehearsed that "Ancient Mariner"
Or told in accents that like manna fell
The wild and wondrous tale of Christabel!

Blown in the morning thou shalt fade ere noon:
What boots a life which in such haste forsakes thee?
Th'art wondrous frolic being to die so soon
And passing proud a little colour makes thee!
If thee thy brittle beauty so deceives
Know then the thing that swells thee is thy bane
For the same beauty doth in bloody leaves
The sentence of thy early death contain.
Some clown's coarse lungs will poison thy sweet flower
If by the careless plough thou shalt be torn!
And many Herods lie in wait each hour
To murther thee as soon as thou art born
Nay force thy bud to blow! Their tyrant breath
Anticipating life to hasten death.

Some lip will use her name--a rapt surprise
Passing the heart's set ward upon me steals.
One word to me doth one saint canonize
And all the acquest of earth and heaven it seals.
I name that name and doubt for me has ending
And Sorrow strong of old forgets her part
The battle-cry it is to God ascending
For all the triumphs of my labouring heart.
Ah what is beauty's charge what true what dearest
But that one lovely word will speak it home?
To splendour to humility 'tis nearest
And the last depths of longing it can plumb.
The plaudit of all joy all good it bears
I breathe it and a breath completes my prayers.

No! 'twas the questing dream that first achieved her--
More sensed for knowing no material part
More real that no false outward eye perceived her
Too gross but that pure eye within my heart.
Nor feigned I as my spirit so embraced her
These arms encumbered might
ah! could they too
Would she not fade as vision e'er effaced her
As loves in this weak flesh so often do?
In flesh she might escape me might expire
In the vicissitudes through flesh that range
But being the shadow of my heart's desire
She could not pass beyond me could not change.
O paradox! Want food--you are richer fed!
Lack the coarse crumbs--you find diviner bread! 

The storm is done--the lightning with its lust
To rend the unhallowed dome in ruin dire
The purple heaps from the rank chaos thrust
On sheets of fell and inauspicious fire
The thunder bellowing loud on every bound
The hissing bolt so tossed as to complete
All permutations of Satanic sound
The flood that opened heaven and ransomed it.
Benign now is that beatific blue.
The flame that fires the hill is now remote
From aught in evil. Clemency anew
--Crowns every leaf and sings in every throat.
Shall then the rage of earth and heaven depart
And not the rancour of the unsensing heart? 

Thou grim physician armed with septic shears
Thou that dissemblest even in death's repose
Earth's quiet pulse and her remedial throes
How dull thy visage on this day appears!
Let now the dismal heaven give vent its tears
Come frozen ever
no gale coeval blows
Filled with the ravaged perfume of the rose
And keep not all fair things forsaken biers?
O haste then spiritless minister thy pains
To charge the sources of the unfruitful earth
For harvests blest in wood in plot and lawn!
O laggard on! till fire re-flood the veins
Of Spring here ay to trip the vales with Mirth
As long night over does the exulting dawn!

Rich hour! is not thy gift a radiant thing?
The truth here blazoned in this marble and gold
Here writ in this refulgence manifold
Hath sunned my groped redemption: lo I fling--
How lightly!--off ungraced desire
I cling
To that faith firm this splendour hath retold:
My spirit towered doth its sheer track behold
And shakes the dust of chaos from its wing.
Life that is death riches named with a lie
This fane would that the sum of both employs
Your tears unseal if ignorance could weep.
Is not true being locked in tombs? and die
Must not we in death ere life's innater joys
We may as I now clasp as in a sleep?

This world is driven by two contending powers--
Love that coerceth Heaven to dwell with dust
And that dire pledge of Hell's self-perjured Lust--
And as we list must Heaven and Hell be ours.
Not light the election runs: lo each devours
That savour set in each while equal gust
Each uses
yet our choice support we must--
Blest wine or this rejected sweat that sours.
Love oft through Hell that seems acclaims what Heaven!
But Lust through seeming Heaven with easy breath
Slides on to Hell how soon how richly given!
If Love to heavenly state so quickeneth
While Lust must e'er in cheating Hell be shriven
They sponsor what these powers but Life and Death? 

The woods that summer loved are grey and bare
The sombre trees stretch up their arms on high
In mute appeal against the leaden sky
A flurry faint of snow is in the air.
All day the clouds have hung in heavy fold
Above the valley where grey shadows steal
And I who sit and watch them seem to feel
A touch of sadness as the day grows old.
But o'er my fancy comes a tender face
A dream of curls that float like sunlight golden--
A subtle fragrance filling all the place
The whisper of a story that is olden--
Till breaks the sun through dull December skies
And all the world is springtime in the deep blue of her eyes.

How many a throb of the young poet-heart
Aspiring to the ideal bliss of fame
Deems that time soon may sanctify his claim
Among the sons of song to dwell apart.--
Time passes--passes! The aspiring flame
Of hope shrinks down
the white flower poesy
Breaks on its stalk and from its earth-turned eye
Drop sleepy tears instead of that sweet dew
Rich with inspiring odors insect wings
Drew from its leaves with every changing sky
While its young innocent petals unsunned grew.
No more in pride to other ears he sings
But with a dying charm himself unto:--
For a sad season: then to active life he springs.

Adieu! thou Yale! where youthful poets dwell
No more I linger by thy classic stream.
Inglorious ease and sportive songs farewell!
Thou startling clarion! break the sleeper's dream!
And sing ye bards! the war-inspiring theme.
Heard ye the din of battle? clang of arms?
Saw ye the steel 'mid starry banners beam?
Quick throbs my breast at war's untried alarms
Unknown pulsations stirr'd by glory's charms.
While dear Columbia calls no danger awes
Though certain death to threaten'd chains be join'd.
Though fails this flesh devote to freedom's cause
Can death subdue th' unconquerable mind?
Or adamantine chains ethereal substance bind?

Ere we can think of time--the moment's past--
And straight another since that thought began:
So swift each instant mingles with the last
The flying now exists--no more for man.
With consciousness suspended ev'n by sleep
To what this phantom life then likest seems?
Say thou! whose doubtful being (lost in dreams)
Allows the wilder'd but to wake and weep
So thoughtless hurried to th' eternal deep!
'Tis like a moon-light vision's airy shade
A bubble driving down the deep beneath
Then ere the bubble burst the vision fade
Dissolv'd in air this evanescent breath!
Let man not mortal learn true life begins at death.

Hark! friends! what sobs of sorrow moans of grief
On every gale through every region spread!
Hark! how the western world bewails our chief
Great Washington his country's father dead!
Our living light expiring with his breath
His bright example still illumes our way
Through the dark valley of thy shadow death!
To realms on high of life without decay.
Faint he relied on heav'nly help alone
While conscience cheer'd th' inevitable hour
When fades the glare of grandeur pomp of pow'r
And all the pageantry that gems a throne:
Then from his hallow'd track who shall entice
Columbia's sons to tread the paths of vice?

A lover of the woods and streams and sky
The quiet lake 'neath evening's level light
And all of Nature's summer sound and sight--
Thou look'st upon her with a poet's eye.
And when from drifting boat thou'st cast a fly--
To wait with eager heart for sudden bite
Where all the depths of mystery excite
Thou still hast joy though all the fish go by.
And when red summer suns have sunk to rest
And thy true preacher's work has come again
With tender care thou'rt happy in the quest
Of human souls
and with thy golden pen
Thou searchest for the good in every breast--
Still largely loving all that's best in men! 

Trained in the holy art whose lifted shield
Wards off the darts a never-slumbering foe
By hearth and wayside lurking waits to throw.
Oppression taught his helpful arm to wield
The slayer's weapon: on the murderous field
The fiery bolt he challenged laid him low
Seeking its noblest victim. Even so
The charter of a nation must be sealed!
The healer's brow the hero's honours crowned
From lowliest duty called to loftiest deed.
Living the oak-leaf wreath his temples bound
Dying the conqueror's laurel was his meed
Last on the broken ramparts' turf to bleed
Where Freedom's victory in defeat was found.

I heard Old Ocean raise her voice and cry
In that still hour between the night and day
I saw the answering tides green robed and gray
Turn to her with a low contented sigh
Marching with silent feet they passed me by
For the white moon had taught them to obey
And scarce a wavelet broke in fretful spray
As they went forth to kiss the stooping sky.
So to my heart when the last sunray sleeps
And the wan night impatient for the moon
Throws her gray mantle over land and sea
There comes a call from out Life's nether deeps
And tides like some old ocean in a swoon
Flow out in soundless majesty to thee.

Becalmed upon the equatorial seas
A ship of gold lay on a sea of fire
Each sail and rope and spar as in desire
Mutely besought the kisses of a breeze
Low laughter told the mariners at ease
Sweet sea-songs hymned the red sun's fun'ral pyre:
Yet One with eyes that never seemed to tire
Watched for the storm nursed on the thunder's knees.
Thou watcher of the spirit's inner keep
Scanning Death's lone illimitable deep
Spread outward to the far immortal shore!
While the vault sleeps from the upheaving deck
Thou see'st the adamantine reefs that wreck
And Life's low shoals where lusting billows roar. 

When with low moanings on the distant shore
Like vain regrets the ocean-tide is rolled:
When thro' bare boughs the tale of death is told
By breezes sighing "Summer days are o'er"
When all the days we loved -- the days of yore --
Lie in their vaults dead Kings who ruled of old --
Unrobed and sceptreless uncrowned with gold
Conquered and to be crowned ah! never more.
If o'er the bare fields cold and whitening
With the first snow-flakes I should see thy form
And meet and kiss thee that were enough of Spring
Enough of sunshine could I feel the warm
Glad beating of thy heart 'neath Winter's wing
Tho' Earth were full of whirlwind and of storm.

Huge vapours brood above the clifted shore
Night on the ocean settles dark and mute
Save where is heard the repercussive roar
Of drowsy billows on the rugged foot
Of rocks remote
or still more distant tone
Of seamen in the anchored bark that tell
The watch relieved
or one deep voice alone
Singing the hour and bidding "Strike the bell!"
All is black shadow but the lucid line
Marked by the light surf on the level sand
Or where afar the ship-lights faintly shine
Like wandering fairy fires that oft on land
Misled the pilgrim--such the dubious ray
That wavering reason lends in life's long darkling way.

He may be envied who with tranquil breast
Can wander in the wild and woodland scene
When summer's glowing hands have newly dressed
The shadowy forests and the copses green
Who unpursued by care can pass his hours
Where briony and woodbine fringe the trees
On thymy banks reposing while the bees
Murmur "their fairy tunes in praise of flowers"
Or on the rock with ivy clad and fern
That overhangs the osier-whispering bed
Of some clear current bids his wishes turn
From this bad world
and by calm reason led
Knows in refined retirement to possess
My friendship hallowed rural happiness! 

Of folly weary shrinking from the view
Of violence and fraud allowed to take
All peace from humble life I would forsake
Their haunts for ever and sweet nymph! with you
Find shelter
where my tired and tear-swoln eyes
Among your silent shades of soothing hue
Your "bells and florets of unnumbered dyes"
Might rest--and learn the bright varieties
That from your lovely hands are fed with dew
And every veind leaf that trembling sighs
In mead or woodland
or in wilds remote
Or lurk with mosses in the humid caves
Mantle the cliffs on dimpling rivers float
Or stream from coral rocks beneath the ocean waves.

The upland shepherd as reclined he lies
On the soft turf that clothes the mountain brow
Marks the bright sea-line mingling with the skies
Or from his course celestial sinking low
The summer sun in purple radiance glow
Blaze on the western waters
the wide scene
Magnificent and tranquil seems to spread
Even over the rustic's breast a joy serene
When like dark plague-spots by the demons shed
Charged deep with death upon the waves far seen
Move the war-freighted ships
and fierce and red
Flash their destructive fires--The mangled dead
And dying victims then pollute the flood.
Ah! thus man spoils glorious works with blood!

Over faded heath-flowers spun or thorny furze
The filmy gossamer is lightly spread
Waving in every sighing air that stirs
As fairy fingers had entwined the thread:
A thousand trembling orbs of lucid dew
Spangle the texture of the fairy loom
As if soft sylphs lamenting as they flew
Had wept departed summer's transient bloom:
But the wind rises and the turf receives
The glittering web:--So evanescent fade
Bright views that youth with sanguine heart believes:
So vanish schemes of bliss by fancy made
Which fragile as the fleeting dews of morn
Leave but the withered heath and barren thorn!

Should the lone wanderer fainting on his way
Rest for a moment of the sultry hours
And though his path through thorns and roughness lay
Pluck the wild rose or woodbine's gadding flowers
Weaving gay wreaths beneath some sheltering tree
The sense of sorrow he awhile may lose
So have l sought thy flowers fair poesy
So charmed my way with friendship and the muse.
But darker now grows life's unhappy day
Dark with new clouds of evil yet to come:
Her pencil sickening fancy throws away
And weary hope reclines upon the tomb
And points my wishes to that tranquil shore
Where the pale spectre care pursues no more.

Queen of the silver bow!--by thy pale beam
Alone and pensive I delight to stray
And watch thy shadow trembling in the stream
Or mark the floating clouds that cross thy way.
And while I gaze thy mild and placid light
Sheds a soft calm upon my troubled breast
And oft I think--fair planet of the night--
That in thy orb the wretched may have rest:
The sufferers of the earth perhaps may go
Released by Death--to thy benignant sphere
And the sad children of Despair and Woe
Forget in thee their cup of sorrow here.
Oh! that I soon may reach thy world serene
Poor wearied pilgrim--in this toiling scene! 

Come balmy Sleep! tired Nature's soft resort!
On these sad temples all thy poppies shed
And bid gay dreams from Morpheus' airy court
Float in light vision round my aching head!
Secure of all thy blessings partial Power!
On his hard bed the peasant throws him down
And the poor sea boy in the rudest hour
Enjoys thee more than he who wears a crown.
Clasped in her faithful shepherd's guardian arms
Well may the village girl sweet slumbers prove
And they O gentle Sleep! still taste thy charms
Who wake to labor liberty and love.
But still thy opiate aid dost thou deny
To calm the anxious breast
to close the streaming eye. 

O thou who sleep'st where hazel bands entwine
The vernal grass with paler violets drest!
I would sweet maid thy humble bed were mine
And mine thy calm and enviable rest.
For never more by human ills opprest
Shall thy soft spirit fruitlessly repine:
Thou canst not now thy fondest hopes resign
Even in the hour that should have made thee blest.
Light lies the turf upon thy virgin breast
And lingering here to love and sorrow true
The youth who once thy simple heart possest
Shall mingle tears with April's early dew
While still for him shall faithful memory save
Thy form and virtues from the silent grave. 

The blue heaven spreads before me with its keen
And countless eyes of brightness--worlds are there--
The boldest spirit cannot spring and dare
The peopled universe that burns between
This earth and nothing. Thought can wing its way
Swifter than lightning-flashes or the beam
That hastens on the pinions of the morn
But quicker than the glowing dart of day
It tires and faints along the starry stream--
A wave of suns through countless ether borne
Though infinite eternal! yet one power
Sits on the Almighty Center whither tend
All worlds and beings from time's natal hour
Till suns and all their satellites shall end. 

Not sweeter to the storm-tossed mariner
Is glimpse of home where wife and children wait
To welcome him with kisses at the gate
Than to the town-worn man the breezy stir
Of mountain winds on rugged pathless heights:
His long-pent soul drinks in the deep delights
That Nature hath in store. The sun-kissed bay
Gleams thro' the grand old gnarled gum-tree boughs
Like burnished brass
the strong-winged bird of prey
Sweeps by upon his lonely vengeful way --
While over all like breath of holy vows
The sweet airs blow and the high-vaulted sky
Looks down in pity this fair Summer day
On all poor earth-born creatures doomed to die.

Sweet--we will hold to Love for Love's sweet sake
Seeing Love to us must be his own reward:
Haply we shall not find our task too hard
Nor suffer from intolerable ache.
Yea though henceforth our lives asunder break
From every comfort-giving hope debarr'd
Love may support his martyrs and the scarr'd
And wounded heart may triumph at the stake.
Sweet--not for us Love's guerdons: not for us
The boons which wont Love's constancy requite
No whisper of low voices tremulous
Kiss or caress
no breath of Love's delight:
Yet will we hold our joyless troth and thus
Achieve Love's victory in Fate's despite.
I sought on earth a garden of delight
Or island altar to the Sea and Air
Where gentle music were accounted prayer
And reason veiled performed the happy rite.
My sad youth worshipped at the piteous height
Where God vouchsafed the death of man to share
His love made mortal sorrow light to bear
But his deep wounds put joy to shamd flight.
And though his arms outstretched upon the tree
Were beautiful and pleaded my embrace
My sins were loth to look upon his face.
So came I down from Golgotha to thee
Eternal Mother
let the sun and sea
Heal me and keep me in thy dwelling-place.

Slow and reluctant was the long descent
With many farewell pious looks behind
And dumb misgivings where the path might wind
And questionings of nature as I went.
The greener branches that above me bent
The broadening valleys quieted my mind
To the fair reasons of the Spring inclined
And to the Summer's tender argument.
But sometimes as revolving night descended
And in my childish heart the new song ended
I lay down full of longing on the steep
And haunting still the lonely way I wended
Into my dreams the ancient sorrow blended
And with these holy echoes charmed my sleep.

O world thou choosest not the better part!
It is not wisdom to be only wise
And on the inward vision close the eyes
But it is wisdom to believe the heart.
Columbus found a world and had no chart
Save one that faith deciphered in the skies
To trust the soul's invincible surmise
Was all his science and his only art.
Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine
That lights the pathway but one step ahead
Across a void of mystery and dread.
Bid then the tender light of faith to shine
By which alone the mortal heart is led
Unto the thinking of the thought divine. 

I would I had been born in nature's day
When man was in the world a wide-eyed boy
And clouds of sorrow crossed his sky of joy
To scatter dewdrops on the buds of May.
Then could he work and love and fight and pray
Nor heartsick grow in fortune's long employ.
Mighty to build and ruthless to destroy
He lived while maskd death unquestioned lay.
Now ponder we the ruins of the years
And groan beneath the weight of boasted gain
No unsung bacchanal can charm our ears
And lead our dances to the woodland fane
No hope of heaven sweeten our few tears
And hush the importunity of pain.

Dreamt I to-day the dream of yesternight
Sleep ever feigning one evolving theme--
Of my two lives which should I call the dream?
Which action vanity? which vision sight?
Some greater waking must pronounce aright
If aught abideth of the things that seem
And with both currents swell the flooded stream
Into an ocean infinite of light.
Even such a dream I dream and know full well
My waking passeth like a midnight spell
But know not if my dreaming breaketh through
Into the deeps of heaven and of hell.
I know but this of all I would I knew:

Love not as do the flesh-imprisoned men
Whose dreams are of a bitter bought caress
Or even of a maiden's tenderness
Whom they love only that she loves again.
For it is but thyself thou lovest then
Or what thy thoughts would glory to possess
But love thou nothing thou wouldst love the less
If henceforth ever hidden from thy ken.
Love but the formless and eternal Whole
From whose effulgence one unheeded ray
Breaks on this prism of dissolving clay
Into the flickering colours of thy soul.
These flash and vanish
bid them not to stay
For wisdom brightens as they fade away.

I would I might forget that I am I
And break the heavy chain that binds me fast
Whose links about myself my deeds have cast.
What in the body's tomb doth buried lie
Is boundless
'tis the spirit of the sky
Lord of the future guardian of the past
And soon must forth to know his own at last.
In his large life to live I fain would die.
Happy the dumb beast hungering for food
But calling not his suffering his own
Blessd the angel gazing on all good
But knowing not he sits upon a throne
Wretched the mortal pondering his mood
And doomed to know his aching heart alone 

O Martyred Spirit of this helpless Whole
Who dost by pain for tyranny atone
And in the star the atom and the stone
Purgest the primal guilt and in the soul
Rich but in grief thou dost thy wealth unroll
And givest of thy substance to thine own
Mingling the love the laughter and the groan
In the large hollow of the heaven's bowl.
Fill full my cup
the dregs and honeyed brim
I take from thy just hand more worthy love
For sweetening not the draught for me or him.
What in myself I am that let me prove
Relent not for my feeble prayer nor dim
The burning of thine altar for my hymn. 

Have patience
it is fit that in this wise
The spirit purge away its proper dross.
No endless fever doth thy watches toss
For by excess of evil evil dies.
Soon shall the faint world melt before thine eyes
And all life's losses cancelled by life's loss
Thou shalt lay down all burdens on thy cross
And be that day with God in Paradise.
Have patience
for a long eternity
No summons woke thee from thy happy sleep
For love of God one vigil thou canst keep
And add thy drop of sorrow to the sea.
Having known grief all will be well with thee
Ay and thy second slumber will be deep.

Have I the heart to wander on the earth
So patient in her everlasting course
Seeking no prize but bowing to the force
That gives direction and hath given birth?
Rain tears sweet Pity to refresh my dearth
And plough my sterile bosom sharp Remorse
That I grow sick and curse my being's source
If haply one day passes lacking mirth.
Doth the sun therefore burn that I may bask?
Or do the tired earth and tireless sea
That toil not for their pleasure toil for me?
Amid the world's long striving wherefore ask
What reasons were or what rewards shall be?
The covenant God gave us is a task. 

Deem not because you see me in the press
Of this world's children run my fated race
That I blaspheme against a proffered grace
Or leave unlearned the love of holiness.
I honour not that sanctity the less
Whose aureole illumines not my face
But dare not tread the secret holy place
To which the priest and prophet have access.
For some are born to be beatified
By anguish and by grievous penance done
And some to furnish forth the age's pride
And to be praised of men beneath the sun
And some are born to stand perplexed aside
From so much sorrow--of whom I am one. 

Mightier storms than this are brewed on earth
That pricks the crystal lake with summer showers.
The past hath treasure of sublimer hours
And God is witness to their changeless worth.
Big is the future with portentous birth
Of battles numberless and nature's powers
Outdo my dreams of beauty in the flowers
And top my revels with the demons' mirth.
But thou glad river that hast reached the plain
Scarce wak'st the rushes to a slumberous sigh.
The mountains sleep behind thee and the main
Awaits thee lulling an eternal pain
With patience
nor doth Phoebe throned on high
The mirror of thy placid heart disdain. 

Sweet are the days we wander with no hope
Along life's labyrinthine trodden way
With no impatience at the steep's delay
Nor sorrow at the swift-descended slope.
Why this inane curiosity to grope
In the dim dust for gems' unmeaning ray?
Why this proud piety that dares to pray
For a world wider than the heaven's cope?
Farewell my burden! No more will I bear
The foolish load of my fond faith's despair
But trip the idle race with careless feet.
The crown of olive let another wear
It is my crown to mock the runner's heat
With gentle wonder and with laughter sweet. 

There may be chaos still around the world
This little world that in my thinking lies
For mine own bosom is the paradise
Where all my life's fair visions are unfurled.
Within my nature's shell I slumber curled
Unmindful of the changing outer skies
Where now perchance some new-born Eros flies
Or some old Cronos from his throne is hurled.
I heed them not
or if the subtle night
Haunt me with deities I never saw
I soon mine eyelid's drowsy curtain draw
To hide their myriad faces from my sight.
They threat in vain
the whirlwind cannot awe
A happy snow-flake dancing in the flaw. 

A wall a wall to hem the azure sphere
And hedge me in from the disconsolate hills!
Give me but one of all the mountain rills
Enough of ocean in its voice I hear.
Come no profane insatiate mortal near
With the contagion of his passionate ills
The smoke of battle all the valleys fills
Let the eternal sunlight greet me here.
This spot is sacred to the deeper soul
And to the piety that mocks no more.
In nature's inmost heart is no uproar
None in this shrine
in peace the heavens roll
In peace the slow tides pulse from shore to shore
And ancient quiet broods from pole to pole. 

A thousand beauties that have never been
Haunt me with hope and tempt me to pursue
The gods methinks dwell just behind the blue
The satyrs at my coming fled the green.
The flitting shadows of the grove between
The dryads' eyes were winking and I knew
The wings of sacred Eros as he flew
And left me to the love of things not seen.
'Tis a sad love like an eternal prayer
And knows no keen delight no faint surcease.
Yet from the seasons hath the earth increase
And heaven shines as if the gods were there.
Had Dian passed there could no deeper peace
Embalm the purple stretches of the air. 

There was a time when in the teeth of fate
I flung the challenge of the spirit's right
The child the dreamer of that visioned night
Woke and was humbled unto man's estate.
A slave I am
on sun and moon I wait
Who heed not that I live upon their light.
Me they despise but are themselves so bright
They flood my heart with love and quench my hate.
O subtle Beauty sweet persuasive worth
That didst the love of being first inspire
We do thee homage both in death and birth.
Thirsting for thee we die in thy great dearth
Or borrow breath of infinite desire
To chase thine image through the haunted earth. 

Blaspheme not love ye lovers nor dispraise
The wise divinity that makes you blind
Sealing the eyes but showing to the mind
The high perfection from which nature strays.
For love is God and in unfathomed ways
Brings forth the beauty for which fancy pined.
I loved and lost my love among mankind
But I have found it after many days.
Oh trust in God and banish rash despair
That feigning evil is itself the curse!
My angel is come back more sad and fair
And witness to the truth of love I bear
With too much rapture for this sacred verse
At the exceeding answer to my prayer. 

Above the battlements of heaven rise
The glittering domes of the gods' golden dwelling
Whence like a constellation passion-quelling
The truth of all things feeds immortal eyes.
There all forgotten dreams of paradise
From the deep caves of memory upwelling
All tender joys beyond our dim foretelling
Are ever bright beneath the flooded skies.
There we live o'er amid angelic powers
Our lives without remorse as if not ours
And others' lives with love as if our own
For we behold from those eternal towers
The deathless beauty of all wingd hours
And have our being in their truth alone. 

These strewn thoughts by the mountain pathway sprung
I conned for comfort till I ceased to grieve
And with these flowering thorns I dare to weave
The crown great Mother on thine altar hung.
Teach thou a larger speech to my loosed tongue
And to mine opened eyes thy secrets give
That in thy perfect love I learn to live
And in thine immortality be young.
The soul is not on earth an alien thing
That hath her life's rich sources otherwhere
She is a parcel of the sacred air.
She takes her being from the breath of Spring
The glance of Phoebus is her fount of light
And her long sleep a draught of primal night.

Poet! if on a lasting fame be bent
Thy unperturbing hopes thou will not roam
Too far from thine own happy heart and home
Cling to the lowly earth and be content!
So shall thy name be dear to many a heart
So shall the noblest truths by thee be taught
The flower and fruit of wholesome human thought
Bless the sweet labors of thy gentle art.
The brightest stars are nearest to the earth
And we may track the mighty sun above
Even by the shadow of a slender flower.
Always O bard humility is power!
And thou mayst draw from matters of the hearth
Truths wide as nations and as deep as love. 

Most men know love but as a part of life
They hide it in some corner of the breast
Even from themselves
and only when they rest
In the brief pauses of that daily strife
Wherewith the world might else be not so rife
They draw it forth (as one draws forth a toy
To soothe some ardent kiss-exacting boy)
And hold it up to sister child or wife.
Ah me! why may not love and life be one?
Why walk we thus alone when by our side
Love like a visible God might be our guide?
How would the marts grow noble! and the street
Worn like a dungeon-floor by weary feet
Seem then a golden court-way of the Sun!

Life ever seems as from its present site
It aimed to lure us. Mountains of the past
It melts with all their crags and caverns vast
Into a purple cloud! Across the night
Which hides what is to be it shoots a light
All rosy with the yet unrisen dawn.
Not the near daisies but yon distant height
Attracts us lying on this emerald lawn.
And always be the landscape what it may --
Blue misty hill or sweep of glimmering plain --
It is the eye's endeavor still to gain
The fine faint limit of the bounding day.
God haply in this mystic mode would fain
Hint of a happier home far far away!

They dub thee idler smiling sneeringly
And why? because forsooth so many moons
Here dwelling voiceless by the voiceful sea
Thou hast not set thy thoughts to paltry tunes
In song or sonnet. Them these golden noons
Oppress not with their beauty
they could prate
Even while a prophet read the solemn runes
On which is hanging some imperial fate.
How know they these good gossips what to thee
The ocean and its wanderers may have brought?
How know they in their busy vacancy
With what far aim thy spirit may be fraught?
Or that thou dost not bow thee silently
Before some great unutterable thought?

Some truths there be are better left unsaid
Much is there that we may not speak unblamed.
On words as wings how many joys have fled!
The jealous fairies love not to be named.
There is an old-world tale of one whose bed
A genius graced to all save him unknown
One day the secret passed his lips and sped
As secrets speed -- thenceforth he slept alone.
Too much oh! far too much is told in books
Too broad a daylight wraps us all and each.
Ah! it is well that deeper than our looks
Some secrets lie beyond conjecture's reach.
Ah! it is well that in the soul are nooks
That will not open to the keys of speech.

I scarcely grieve O Nature! at the lot
That pent my life within a city's bounds
And shut me from thy sweetest sights and sounds.
Perhaps I had not learned if some lone cot
Had nursed a dreamy childhood what the mart
Taught me amid its turmoil
so my youth
Had missed full many a stern but wholesome truth.
Here too O Nature! in this haunt of Art
Thy power is on me and I own thy thrall.
There is no unimpressive spot on earth!
The beauty of the stars is over all
And Day and Darkness visit every hearth.
Clouds do not scorn us: yonder factory's smoke
Looked like a golden mist when morning broke.

the Tears Upon My Cheek"
Grief dies like joy
the tears upon my cheek
Will disappear like dew. Dear God! I know
Thy kindly Providence hath made it so
And thank thee for the law. I am too weak
To make a friend of Sorrow or to wear
With that dark angel ever by my side
(Though to thy heaven there be no better guide)
A front of manly calm. Yet for I hear
How woe hath cleansed how grief can deify
So weak a thing it seems that grief should die
And love and friendship with it I could pray
That if it might not gloom upon my brow
Nor weigh upon my arm as it doth now
No grief of mine should ever pass away.

At last beloved Nature! I have met
Thee face to face upon thy breezy hills
And boldly where thy inmost bowers are set
Gazed on thee naked in thy mountain rills.
When first I felt thy breath upon my brow
Tears of strange ecstasy gushed out like rain
And with a longing passionate as vain
I strove to clasp thee. But I know not how
Always before me didst thou seem to glide
And often from one sunny mountain-side
Upon the next bright peak I saw thee kneel
And heard thy voice upon the billowy blast
But climbing only reached that shrine to feel
The shadow of a Presence which had passed. 

I know not why but all this weary day
Suggested by no definite grief or pain
Sad fancies have been flitting through my brain
Now it has been a vessel losing way
Rounding a stormy headland
now a gray
Dull waste of clouds above a wintry main
And then a banner drooping in the rain
And meadows beaten into bloody clay.
Strolling at random with this shadowy woe
At heart I chanced to wander hither! Lo!
A league of desolate marsh-land with its lush
Hot grasses in a noisome tide-left bed
And faint warm airs that rustle in the hush
Like whispers round the body of the dead! 

Were I the poet-laureate of the fairies
Who in a rose-leaf finds too broad a page
Or could I like your beautiful canaries
Sing with free heart and happy in a cage
Perhaps I might within this little space
(As in some Eastern tale by magic power
A giant is imprisoned in a flower)
Have told you something with a poet's grace.
But I need wider limits ampler scope
A world of freedom for a world of passion
And even then the glory of my hope
Would not be uttered in its stateliest fashion
Yet lady when fit language shall have told it
You'll find one little heart enough to hold it! 

Which are the clouds and which the mountains? See
They mix and melt together! Yon blue hill
Looks fleeting as the vapors which distill
Their dews upon its summit while the free
And far-off clouds now solid dark and still
An aspect wear of calm eternity.
Each seems the other as our fancies will --
The cloud a mount the mount a cloud and we
Gaze doubtfully. So everywhere on earth
This foothold where we stand with slipping feet
The unsubstantial and substantial meet
And we are fooled until made wise by Time.
Is not the obvious lesson something worth
Lady? or have I wov'n an idle rhyme?

What gossamer lures thee now? What hope what name
Is on thy lips? What dreams to fruit have grown?
Thou who hast turned ONE Poet-heart to stone
Is thine yet burning with its seraph flame?
Let me give back a warning of thine own
That falling from thee many moons ago
Sank on my soul like the prophetic moan
Of some young Sibyl shadowing her own woe.
The words are thine and will not do thee wrong
I only bind their solemn charge to song.
Thy tread is on a quicksand -- oh! be wise!
Nor in the passionate eagerness of youth
Mistake thy bosom-serpent's glittering eyes
For the calm lights of reason and of truth.

I thank you kind and best belovd friend
With the same thanks one murmurs to a sister
When for some gentle favor he hath kissed her
Less for the gifts than for the love you send
Less for the flowers than what the flowers convey
If I indeed divine their meaning truly
And not unto myself ascribe unduly
Things which you neither meant nor wished to say
Oh! tell me is the hope then all misplaced?
And am I flattered by my own affection?
But in your beauteous gift methought I traced
Something above a short-lived predilection
And which for that I know no dearer name
I designate as love without love's flame.

Are these wild thoughts thus fettered in my rhymes
Indeed the product of my heart and brain?
How strange that on my ear the rhythmic strain
Falls like faint memories of far-off times!
When did I feel the sorrow act the part
Which I have striv'n to shadow forth in song?
In what dead century swept that mingled throng
Of mighty pains and pleasures through my heart?
Not in the yesterdays of that still life
Which I have passed so free and far from strife
But somewhere in this weary world I know
In some strange land beneath some orient clime
I saw or shared a martyrdom sublime
And felt a deeper grief than any later woe. 

If I have graced no single song of mine
With thy sweet name they all are full of thee
Thou art my Muse my "May" my "Madeline":
But "Julia"! -- ah! that gentle name to me
Is something far too sacred for the throng
Of worldly listeners 'round me. Yet ev'n now
I weave a chaplet for thy sinless brow
--
Wilt thou not wear it? 'T is a fashionable song --
I will not say of what -- but on it I
Have wreaked heart mind my love my hopes of fame
Yet after all it hath no nobler aim
Than thy dear praise. Ere many moons pass by
When the lost gem is set the crown complete
I'll lay a poet's tribute at thy feet.

Methought I saw an angel on the sun
Sit thrond whilst around the planets swayed
Each with its guiding spirit that obeyed
In duteous wise that lofty-visaged one
But on this earth it seemed two spirits fought
A deadly combat struggling hand to hand--
The GOOD and EVIL over sea and land
Locked in a strife with dreadful issues fraught.
For as the calm-eyed ruler of each sphere
Bore slowly past the battle-riven world
Firm in his mighty hand he held a spear
Poised o'er his head and ready to be hurled--
To dash this globe to fragments as it whirled
Should Evil's brow the wreath of victory wear.

I Leant my breast against the golden gate
That bars the body from the land of dreams
But lets the soul to roam in lawns where wait
Or wander down the banks of shining streams
The dead and living holding strange debate
Of things that yet should happen 'neath the beams
Of suns as yet unrisen whilst listless Fate
Paused and the stars unyoked their tired teams.
And as my hand the latch sought for I fain
Had followed one who bore a white rose-wreath
Sleep touched mine eyes with darkness and the pain
Of longing ceased
and when I next drew breath
I heard a voice low whisper "It is vain
To enter here--thou first must drink of death!"

A land of deathful sleep where fitful dreams
Of hurrying spring scarce wake swift fading flowers
A land of fleckless sky and sheer-shed beams
Of sun and stars through day's and dark's slow hours
A land where sand has choked once fluent streams--
Where grassless plains lie girt by granite towers
That fright the swift and heaven-nurtured teams
Of winds that bear afar the sea-gleaned showers.
The wild Atlantic fretted by the breath
Of fiery gales o'er leagues of desert sped
Rolls back and wreaks in surf its thunderous wrath
On rocks that down the wan wide shore are spread
The waves for ever roar a song of death
The shore they roar to is for ever dead.

Talk not of prayers that fail
the prayers unheard
Are not the askings Paul meant when he said:
"Pray without ceasing." Be thou well assured
The true petition not of barren word
But plumed of deed scales Heaven overhead
Where souls and suns from God's high throne are shed.
Pray without ceasing let good deeds unfold
Like petals of a rose until complete
The flower of asking full and fair and sweet
Is fit for God's right hand to take and hold.
False prayers are barren breath like vapour rolled
Between men and the stars
they hide the feet
Of angels. But the true prayer wise and meet
From chiming sphere to sphere on high is told.

A mountain sometimes stands in silent state
And outward stillness whilst its fiery heart
Throbs with doom's potency and pent-up fate.
So KANT stood brooding for twelve years apart
From men whilst his strong soul did dominate
Amid the shades whose realm was its resort.
Then on the mind's illimitable sea
He sailed undaunted till he found an isle
Where Truth sat like a Sybil 'neath a tree
Whose fruit was knowledge and he felt her smile
Smite on the veils of sense that utterly
Cloud the soul's eyes and so sad men beguile.
And in his trembling hand she laid the key
That solves the secrets of all things that be.

How often is it that our onward path
Divides in twain whilst at the junction stand
Two fates and each a garland proffereth
Of buds of promise twined with outstretched hand.
The one is Duty called her visage hath
The clearer light and of her promised land
She tells high tidings whilst with stern command
She points to roads that lead perchance to death!
The other is more beautiful
her face
Glows in the sunlight and her lovelit eyes
Shew in their limpid wells the deeps of space
Star-strewn with hopes and fairest prophecies.
Her name is Inclination
but no peace
Dwells in her smile nor on her pathway lies.

Oft would my soul sing but the heart her lyre
Tear-wet and warped by mine and other's woe
Lies in the dust unstrung whilst flicker slow
The embers of its faint and fading fire
So here I sit and watch the moments flow
As into past-times' realm the years retire
With scant gleaned grain within my hands to show--
Scant grain of deed or song my soul's desire
If now God's messenger pale Death should ask:--
"What good hast thou to show for these thy years?
Hast thou made thy life real or but a masque?"
What answer could I give? Of which one task
By grace whereof men's smiles were lit or tears
Dried could I say: "My scroll the record bears?"

To all men Nature speaketh in this wise:--
"Read in my book or straightway shall ye die
Its leaves are open to the readers' eyes
Its living lore was thought and written by
The God whose truths to you are mysteries
And in whose hollow hand alike we lie.
Read in my book and in your reading live
I ask ye many questions day by day:
To those that answer rightly I will give
A guerdon rich and full. If one shall say
"Alas I know not!" I may not reprieve
If one shall answer wrongly I must slay
I know not mercy and may not forgive
And none can my strong mandate disobey."

Gaze on the night with seeming ardour warm
And mark on hill and dale her soft smiles strewn
Till darkness dies before her white wand's charm
I feel that what to earth so fair is shewn
Is false and fleeting as her changing form.
For in her heart is death
and on her breast
She bears the impress of her life's decay
And that sweet light wherewith her throne is drest
Is but the reflex of the quick'ning ray
Lent by the sun that fain would see her blest
With living verdure filling every grey
Dead plain and formless mountain's arid crest.
Yet cold and dead she wends through night and day.

Love came to me full oft and shwed his face
And smiled and fled Love whispered in the spring--
Called from his far-off secret dwelling-place--
And oft before mine eyes his gleaming wing
Fluttered an instant. Oft so high he sate
On peaks of snow that all my breath was gone
Before I reached him and dispassionate
Desire lay dead and love of Love alone
My heart held
yet when Love did farthest seem
He silent stood beside me and his form
Was veiled
then as awaking from a dream
I knew him suddenly and as the storm
Shrouding the sun may break and disappear
The veil was rent and lo! himself was here.

The sea is as a garden that the wind
Biddeth break forth in lily-buds the sky
A picture with all Fairyland designed--
By day the clouds by night the stars sweep by
Nor question nor reveal Love's horoscope.
Life is a maiden with a garland crowned
Space is a palace built by hands of Hope
Time is a melody that doth resound
From star to distant star and only heard
In passing on its transit from afar.
Death the inevitable is deferred
To such most distant futures that his car
Whose thundering wheels so often sound a-nigh
Is silent as his shadow passing by.

Is Love then happiness? Ah yes the best!
Is he not pain? Oh bitter! Doth he smile?
As smiles the morning? Doth he weep? Yea lest
His smile might lose its savour! Hath he guile?
As hath the red rose that beguiles the bee!
What doth his voice discourse of? Lo! herein
Lieth Love's potency
his keen eyes see
And smite upon each secret-hoarded sin
And then he saith: Whilst this with thee doth dwell
Must thou and I for ever be at strife
And in thine ear my tongue must hourly tell
Dispraise till thou dost cast it from thy life?
And most he raileth at the darling vice
That doth each soul so cunningly entice.

Be thou the bow and like the arrow I
Will cleave the golden apple of endeavour
The errant knight of Truth I'll slay each lie
And Error's web with thought's keen sword-blade sever.
The earth is but a clod until the sun
Draw beauty from its breast in tree and flower
The years are but a waste of sands that run
Till high achievement crown one noble hour.
The great word's rocky ribs are thinly veined
With gold that none but strongest seekers' find
And many a combat by the warrior gained
Before his brow with bays may be entwined.
Alone my spirit faints upon the way
Be thou its guide be thou its saving stay. 

The night is still the silent frost hangs thick
On leaf and grass the jewel's coming day
Will light to softened splendour. Bright and quick
The starbeams through the crisp air thrill. Away
Swifter than these a thought has southward sped
And back returned on faithful homing wing
Bearing the picture of a golden head
Pressed on a snowy pillow. Slumbering
My darling lies
each eyelid silken-fringed
Droops like a dove's breast-feather tremulously--
The lips a petalled casket half unhinged
Show pearls more bright than holds the silver sea.
For now a stray dream-spirit at her ear
Tells to the child some tale she smiles to hear.

A rosebud mouth sealed fount of words unspoken
Thy kiss is as a sacrament. Soft hands
That hold my heart each dimple is a token
Of conquest o'er the Future's widening lands!
Bright smile that from the sundawn seems to borrow
Its rarest light I dare not even pray
That thou escape the shades of pain and sorrow
For flowers fade in every cloudless day.
But when the storm comes mayst thou find sure haven
Or strength to stand until its rage hath past
And in the dark may God's strong help be given
Though long the night the day must come at last
And if my own death first be not decreed
Oh may my breast thy shield be at thy need!

I thought because we had been friends so long
That I knew all your dear lips dared intend
Before they dawned to speech. Our thoughts would blend
I dreamed like memories that faintly throng.
Your voice dwelt in me like an olden song.
Petal I thought from petal I could rend
The blossom of your soul and at the end
Find still the same sweet fragrance. I was wrong.
Last evening in our eyes love brimmed to birth
Our friendship faded lost in passion's mist.
We had been strangers only! Here close-caught
Against my heart the dim face I had sought
So long! And now the only thing on earth--
Your piteous mouth a-tremble to be kissed!

Last night beneath the mockery of the moon
I heard the sudden startled whisperings
Of wakened birds settling their restless wings
The North-east brought his word of gladness "Soon!"
And all the night with wonder was a-swoon.
A soul had breathed into long-dreaming things
Some unseen hand hovered above the strings:
Some cosmic chord had set the earth in tune.
And when I rose I saw the Bay arrayed
In her grey robe against the coming heat.
A pulse awoke within the stirring street--
The wattle-gold upon the pavements thrown
And through the quiet of the colonnade
The smoky perfume of boronia blown. 

In her grey majesty of ancient stone
She queens it proudly though the sun's caress
Her piteous cheeks ravished of bloom confess
And her dark eyes his bridegroom glance have know.
Robed in her flowing parks serene alone
She fronts the east
and with the tropic stress
Her smooth brow ripples into weariness
Yet hers the sea for footstool and for throne
A continent predestined. Round her trails
The turbid squalor of her streets and dim
Into the dark heat-haze her domes flow up
Her long lean fingers with their grey-old nails
Giving her thirsty lips to the cool brim
Of the bronze beauty of her harbour's cup. 

She lies a grave disdain all her defence
Too imperturbable for scorn. She hears
Only the murmur of the flowing years
That thunder slowly on her shores immense
And ebb away in moaning impotence.
Giants enduring she and Time are peers--
Her dream-hazed eyes knowing no hopes no tears
Her glance a langour-lidded insolence.
And though the rabble of the restless West
In her deserted courts set their rash sway
She heeds them not
as when the sun withdrawn
From his untarnished sky knows it distressed
By storm of weakling stars that he at dawn
Will wither with one ruthless glance away.

All things must fade. There is for cities tall
The same tomorrow as for daffodils:
Time's wind that casts the seed the petal spills.
Grim London's ruined arches yet shall fall
Back to the arms of Earth. A quiet pall
The mother draws over those she loves--and kills
And though brief nations vaunt their upstart wills
The nemesis of grass shall cover all.
So--from a caravan to Mecca bound
Getting no more than one incurious glance--
Tremendous Babylon thrice-girt with walls
Sick of her thousand years of arrogance
With a few tamarisks upon a mound
Her epigraph upon the desert scrawls. 

One moment mankind rides the crested wave
A moment glorious beyond recall
And then the wave with slow and massive fall
Obliterates the beauty that it gave.
When discrowned king and manumitted slave
Are free and equal to be slaves of all
Democracies in their wide freedom brawl
And go down shouting to a common grave.
So one by one the petals of the rose
Shrivel and fade and all its splendour goes
Back to the earth
and in her arms embraced
Through wintry centuries the dead seeds sleep
Till spring comes troubling them and they unleap
Once more their petals on the world to waste. 

I stood beside a pool from whence ascended
Mounting the cloudy platforms of the wind
A stately heron
its soaring I attended
Till it grew dim and I with watching blind--
When lo! a shaft of arrowy light descended
Upon its darkness and its dim attire
It straightway kindled them and was afire
And with the unconsuming radiance blended.
And bird a cloud flecking the sunny air
It had its golden dwelling 'mid the lightning
Of those empyreal domes and it might there
Have dwelt for ever glorified and bright'ning
But that its wings were weak--so it became
A dusky speck again that was a winged flame.

Our course is onward onward into light:
What though the darkness gathereth amain
Yet to return or tarry both are vain.
How tarry when around us is thick night?
Whither return? what flower yet ever might
In days of gloom and cold and stormy rain
Enclose itself in its green bud again
Hiding from wrath of tempest out of sight?
Courage--we travel through a darksome cave
But still as nearer to the light we draw
Fresh gales will reach us from the upper air
And wholesome dews of heaven our foreheads lave
The darkness lighten more till full of awe
We stand in the open sunshine unaware. 

A sound of many waters!--now I know
To what was likened the large utterance sent
By Him who mid the golden lampads went:
Innumerable streams above below
Some seen some heard alone with headlong flow
Come rushing
some with smooth and sheer descent
Some dashed to foam and whiteness but all blent
Into one mighty music.
As I go
The tumult of a boundless gladness fills
My bosom and my spirit leaps and sings:
Sounds and sights are there of the ancient hills
The eagle's cry the mountain when it flings
Mists from its brow but none of all these things
Like the one voice of multitudinous rills.

To look upon the face of a dead friend
Is hard
but 'tis not more than we can bear
If haply we can see peace written there--
Peace after pain and welcome so the end
Whate'er the past whatever death may send.
Yea and that face a gracious smile may wear
If love till death was perfect sweet and fair
But there is woe from which may God defend:
To look upon our friendship lying dead
While we live on and eat and drink and sleep--
Mere bodies from which all the soul has fled--
And that dead thing year after year to keep
Locked in cold silence in its dreamless bed:--
There must be hell while there is such a deep. 

Chained to the oar and hopeless of reprieve
From year to year to one dull task confined--
A task that needs no effort of the mind
A task mere honest dulness might achieve--
Tell me sincerely though too proud to grieve
Or murmur at thy destinies unkind
Dost thou not feel at least the chains that bind
Thy spirit down to toils it must not leave?
To have decked the shrine of Ceres with the flowers
That science gave to thy collecting hand
To have served by useful arts thy native land:
These were thy hopes
on these were bent thy powers.
These hopes foregone repress thy vain desires
Curb thy aspiring soul and quench her useless fires.

Where softly steal fantastic shadows grim
O'er bannered wall limned saint prone effigies
And time-etched brass sleeps dust-choked mute as these
The Voice that stirred the Minster's arches dim.
With master-touch obedient fingers skim
In eager joyance o'er the yielding keys
And the groined vault is filled with harmonies
That soar and swell in grand triumphant hymn.
Thus some great soul cloistered amid the gloom
And shades of prisoning shell in silence waits
The word inbreathed that shall to the dumb clod
Give speech. As wingd spirit from its tomb
His message fliesnathless the erst-barred gates
And hushed men whisper: "Hark! the voice of God!"


Go! read the patent of thine heritage
Inscribed in glowing words that flash and burn
With pregnant import. Con it well and learn
The thrilling tale that lights the storied page.
See Faith and Valor hand-to-hand engage
Opposing powers and by their prowess turn
The wild into a puissant realm and earn
A deathless fame bright to the latest age!
'Tis thine and mine! Shall we then hold it light
Despise our birthright as some base-born churl
And recreant yield it with a nerveless hand
Or stain our scutcheon with a Judas blight?
When traitors hiss do thou indignant hurl
Thy challenge back: "It is my native land!"

What is the lesson I have brought away
After the moment's palpitating glee?
What has this pomp of men this strong array
Of thousands and ten thousands been to me?
Did I find nothing but the vision gay
The mere phenomenon that all could see?
Did I feel nothing but the brute display
Of power--the show of centred energy?
Trembling and humbled I was taught how hard
It is for our strait minds at once to scan
The might of banded numbers and regard
The individual soul the living man
To use mechanic multitudes and yet
Our common human feelings not forget! 

What good were it to dim the pleasure glow
That lights thy cheek fair girl in scenes like these
By shameful facts and piteous histories?
While we enjoy what matters what we know?
What tender love-sick looks on us below
Those mountains cast! how courteously the trees
Raise up their branching heads in chalices
For the thick vine to fill and overflow!
This nature is like thee all-bright all-mild
If then some self-wise man should say that here
Hate sin and death held rule for many a year
That of this kindliest earth there's not a rood
But has been saturate with brother's blood
Believe him not believe him not my child.

In just accordance with attentive sight
Through airy space and round our planet ball
The inorganic world is voiced with light
And colours are the words it speaks withal.
Thus has my eye had glad experience
Of that most perfect utterance and clear tone
With which all visible things address the sense
In lands retiring from the northern zone.
But oh! in what poor language faintly caught
Do the old features of my England greet
Her stranger-son--how powerless how unmeet
For the free vision Italy had taught
What to expect from nature
I must scan
Her face I fear no more and look alone to man.

Thee I would think one of the many wise
Who in Eliza's time sat eminent
To our now world as Purgatory sent
To teach us what true English poets prize.
Pasquillant froth and foreign galliardize
Are none of thine
but when of gay intent
Thou usest staid old English merriment
Mannerly mirth which no one dare despise.
The scoffs and girds of our poor critic rout
Must move thy pity as amidst their mime
Monk of truth's order from thy memories
Thou dost updraw sublime simplicities
Grand thoughts that never can be wearied out
Showing the unreality of time. 

I have a debt of my heart's own to thee
School of my soul old lime and cloister shade
Which I strange creditor should grieve to see
Fully acquitted and exactly paid.
The first ripe taste of manhood's best delights
Knowledge imbibed while mind and heart agree
In sweet belated talk on winter nights
With friends whom growing time keeps dear to me--
Such things I owe thee and not only these:
I owe thee the far beaconing memories
Of the young dead who having crossed the tide
Of life where it was narrow deep and clear
Now cast their brightness from the further side
On the dark-flowing hours I breast in fear.

Poet and artist think and care not whether
Things hold in truth the glory that they show
Beauty and beauteous thoughts will go together
While to one scene a thousand memories flow
Long spirit-strains from one wild note shall grow
Magnificent tempests from one cloudy feather
From one bright ray the sunset's perfect glow
Hymettian thyme-beds from one plant of heather.
Into one scene a thousand memories flow!
Held we but this reflection at our hearts
And beauty never past without regard
No place would lack illuminated parts
And inward grace with outer mingle so
That nature should be never dark or hard.

What curled and scented sun-girls almond-eyed
With lotus blossoms in their hands and hair
Have made their swarthy lovers call them fair
With these spent strings when brutes were deified
And Memnon in the sunrise sprang and cried
And love-winds smote Bubastis and the bare
Black breasts of carven Pasht received the prayer
Of suppliants bearing gifts from far and wide!
This lute has outsung Egypt
all the lives
Of violent passion and the vast calm art
That lasts in granite only all lie dead
This little bird of song alone survives
As fresh as when its fluting smote the heart
Last time the brown slave wore it garlanded.

Phbus. What voice is this that wails above the deep?
Alcyone. A wife's that mourns her fate and loveless days.
Phbus. What love lies buried in these waterways?
Alcyone. A husband's hurried to eternal sleep.
Phbus. Cease O beloved cease to wail and weep!
Alcyone. Wherefore?
Phbus. The waters in a fiery blaze
Proclaim the godhead of my healing rays.
Alcyone. No god can sow where fate hath stood to reap.
Phbus. Hold wringing hands! cease piteous tears to fall.
Alcyone. But grief must rain and glut the passionate sea.
Phbus. Thou shall forget this ocean and thy wrong
And I will bless the dead though past recall.
Alcyone. What can'st thou give to me or him in me?
Phbus. A name in story and a light in song.

A bounding satyr golden in the beard
That leaps with goat-feet high into the air
And crushes from the thyme an odour rare
Keeps watch around the marble tomb revered
Of Sophocles the poet loved and feared
Whose mighty voice once called out of her lair
The Dorian muse severe with braided hair
Who loved the thyrsus and wild dances weird.
Here all day long the pious bees can pour
Libations of their honey
round this tomb
The Dionysiac ivy loves to roam
The satyr laughs
but He awakes no more
Wrapped up in silence at the grave's cold core
Nor sees the sun wheel round in the white dome.

A lifeless solitude--an angry waste
Searing our alien eyes with horrors bare
No fertilizing cloud--no genial air
To mitigate its savageness of breast
The light itself all undiffusive there
Motionless terror clinging to the crest
Of steepmost pinnacles
as by despair
Unfathomable caverns still possessed!
How shall we designate such world forlorn?
What nook of Heaven abhors this portent dark?
Lo! where the Moon reveals her gentle ray
Waking the nightingale's and poet's lay
Speeding benign the voyager's return
And lighting furtive kisses to their mark!

How fair her meadows stretch from sea to sea
With fruitful promise
changing robes of green
Varying ever till the golden sheen
Of autumnal marks a glad maturity!
How gay 'mid orchard boughs the russets be!
The uplands crowned with crimson maples lean
Long cooling arms of shadow while between
In sun or shade the flocks roam far and free.
From east to west the harvest is her own
On either hand the ocean
at her feet
Her cool lakes' sweetest waters throb and beat
Loke cool firm pulses of her temperate zone.
Gracious and just she calls from sea to sea

Take of the maiden's and the mother's sigh
Of childhood's dream and hope that age doth bless
Of roses and the south wind's tenderness
Of fir-tree's shadow tint of sunset sky
Of moon on meadow where the stream runs by
Of lover's kiss his diffident caress
Of blue eyes' yellow brown eyes' darker tress
Of echoes from the morning bird on high
Of passion of all pulses of the Spring
Of prayer from every death-bed of the Fall
Of joy and woe that sleep and waking bring
Of tremor of each blood-beat great and small
Now pour into the empty soul each thing
And let His finger touch that moveth all.

The skillful listener methinks may hear
The grass blades clash in suny field together
The roses kissing and the lily whether
It laugh or sigh low in the summer's ear
The jewel dew-bells of the mead ring clear
When morning's nearing in the sweet June weather
The flocked hours winging feather unto feather
The last leaf wail at waning of the year.
Methinks from these we catch a passing song
(The best of verities perhaps but seem)
Hearing forsooth shy Nature on her round
When least she imagines it
birds wood and stream
Not only but her silences profound
Surprised by softer footfall of our dream.
Deliver me from mine own dreams! but save
From mine own thoughts
for these too busy still
Fill up the mightiest measure of mine ill
And form the darkest doom that I must brave!
Deliverance then from these I deeply crave
But patience this must need and power and skill
For the great heart is cunning and its will
Right tyrannous! say who stoops not as its slave?
The heart is as a giant in its might
And doth in mastery of its greatness tower
And riseth in its strength to blast and blight!
Heart thou art a host of giants in thine hour!
The passions are thy warriors
and these fight
As though their arms were storms the thunder's conquering dower! 

Listen awhile! but lend me thy loved ear
And I will teach my soul of souls to thine!
The coils of thought will curiously untwine
And strive to show how deeply thou art dear.
But first must I full many a mist of fear
And cloud of grief that dull this doom of mine
Essay to chase away ere yet can shine
The star of perfect love full strong and clear!
Then then behold it all one blaze of light
Itself a glowing firmament of fire
All unextinguishably clear and bright
Though oft thus girt by clouds deep dark and dire
That do disturb its splendour
check its might.
Listen! and smile and bid these heavy glooms retire.

I cannot rule my thoughts that round one theme
Hang like to swarming bees till all grow one!
And yet that theme I fain would learn to shun.
It is my life's too fair but fatal dream.
Too dangerous do its deep enchantments seem
But dearer than my soul--undone! undone!
I cannot rule my thoughts
each rising sun
Sees me still drifting farther down the stream.
O fearful stream of passion! wave by wave
Dost thou engulf my being
must it be?
Is there no power to strengthen or to save?
No tokens of a change these eyes can see:
Days past and days to come one likeness have.
I know my future so it seems a memory! 

There is a music in my mind tonight
A visitation of sweet thoughts and rare!
I know not whence but feel them springing there
Ary and delicate as wind or light.
That music in my mind of magic might
This light cast down on every thought so fair
This stirring sweetness like to moving air
Can this be love?--the immortal and the bright!
It is surely love! for nought beside can be
So strange and yet so sweet so soft yet strong.
It is love the crown of all crowned mystery!
My thoughts are gathering to a starry throng
And scattering forth their brightness far and free
Yet love that sun shines dazzling these among!

Troy was! For lo to other music now
Than in old days bade tower and temple rise
A Troy new-built of fire to all the skies
With flaming walls o'ertoppeth Ida's brow.
Troy was! Therein shall we no more behold
The wealth of youth that once made life so fair
See heaven-born love our mortal vestures wear
Or match with Helen's hair earth's paler gold.
Yet have we lived and battled not in vain
When of that vanished day the tale is told
If once within the hero-ranks enrolled
We lived their higher life of heart and brain:
Though of a phantom beauty we were fain
Though for a failing cause our hearts grew bold.

A gibbering ape that leads an elephant
A dwarf deformed the presence heralding
Of potent wizard or the Elfin King
Caliban deigning sage advice to grant
To mighty Prosper in some hour of want
Sweet bully Bottom while the fairies sing
Braying applause to their rich carolling
But feebly typify thy flippant cant
Stupid defamer who for many a year
With earth's profoundest teacher wast at school
And notwithstanding does at last appear
A brainless heartless faithless hopeless fool.
Come take thy cap and bells and throne thee here
Conspicuous on the dunce's loftiest stool.

The hand of Death lay heavy on her eyes--
For weeks and weeks her vision had not borne
To meet the tenderest light of eve or morn
To see the crescent moonbeam set or rise
Or palest twilight creep across the skies:
She lay in darkness seemingly forlorn
With sharp and ceaseless anguish rack'd and torn
Yet calm with that one peace which never dies.
Closed was for her the gate of visual sense
This world and all its beauty lost in night
But the pure soul was all ablaze with light
And through that gloom she saw with gaze intense
Celestial glories hid from fleshly sight
And heard angelic voices call her hence. 

What is a sonnet? 'Tis the pearly shell
That murmurs of the far-off murmuring sea
A precious jewel carved most curiously:
It is a little picture painted well.
What is a sonnet? 'Tis the tear that fell
From a great poet's hidden ecstasy
A two-edged sword a star a song--ah me!
Sometimes a heavy-tolling funeral bell.
This was the flame that shook with Dante's breath
The solemn organ whereon Milton played
And the clear glass where Shakespeare's shadow falls:
A sea this is--beware who ventureth!
For like a fjord the narrow floor is laid
Mid-ocean deep to the sheer mountain walls.

The speech that day doth utter and the night
Full oft to mortal ears it hath no sound
Dull are our eyes to read upon the ground
What's written there
and stars are hid by light.
So when the dark doth fall awhile our sight
Kens the unwonted orbs that circle round
The quick in sleep our human sense is bound
Speechless for us the starry heavens and bright.
But when the day doth close there is one word
That's writ amid the sunset's golden embers
And one at morn
by them our hearts are stirred:
Splendour of dawn--and Evening that remembers
These are the rhymes of God
thus line on line
Our souls are moved to thoughts that are divine.

When shall true love be love without alloy:
Shine free at last from sinful circumstance!
When shall the canker of unheavenly chance
Eat not the bud of that most heavenly joy!
When shall true love meet love not as a coy
Retreating light that leads a deathful dance
But as a firm fixed fire that doth enhance
The beauty of all beauty! Will the employ
Of poets ever be too well to show
That mightiest love with sharpest pain doth writhe
That underneath the fair caressing glove
Hides evermore the iron hand
and though
Love's flower alone is good if we could prove
Its perfect bloom our breath slays like a scythe! 

My love for thee doth march like armd men
Against a queenly city they would take.
Along the army's front its banners shake
Across the mountain and the sun-smit plain
It steadfast sweeps the steadfast rain
And now the trumpet makes the still air quake
And now the thundering cannon doth awake
Echo on echo echoing loud again.
But lo! the conquest higher than bard had sung
Instead of answering cannon comes a small
White flag
the iron gates are open flung
And flowers along the invaders' pathway fall.
The city's conquerors feast their foes among
And their brave flags are trophies on her wall.

I know thou art not that brown mountain-side
Nor the pale mist that lies along the hills
And with white joy the deepening valley fills
Nor yet the solemn river moving wide
Into that valley where the hills abide
But whence those morning clouds on noiseless wheels
Shall lingering lift and as the moonlight steals
From out the heavens so into the heavens shall glide.
I know thou art not this gray rock that looms
Above the water fringed with scarlet vine
Nor flame of burning meadow
nor the sedge
That sways and trembles at the river's edge.
But through all these dear heart! to me there comes
Some melancholy absent look of thine. 

O highest strongest sweetest woman-soul!
Thou holdest in the compass of thy grace
All the strange fate and passion of thy race:
Of the old primal curse thou knowest the whole:
Thine eyes too wise are heavy with the dole
The doubt the dread of all this human maze
Thou in the virgin morning of thy days
Hast felt the bitter waters o'er thee roll.
Yet thou knowest too the terrible delight
The still content and solemn ecstasy
Whatever sharp sweet bliss thy kind may know.
Thy spirit is deep for pleasure as for woe--
Deep as the rich dark-caverned awful sea
That the keen winded glimmering dawn makes white.

This is the earth he walked on
not alone
That Asian country keeps the sacred stain
'Tis not alone the far Judaean plain
Mountain and river! Lo the sun that shone
On him shines now on us
when day is gone
The moon of Galilee comes forth again
And lights our path as his: an endless chain
Of years and sorrows makes the round world one.
The air we breathe he breathed--the very air
That took the mould and music of his high
And godlike speech.--Since then shall mortal dare
With base thought front the ever-sacred sky--
Soil with foul deed the ground whereon he laid
In holy death his pale immortal head! 

The strongest singer of these latter days
Has left the turmoil of earth's busy throng
But his rich voice is with us and his song
Gladdens our hearts and on our darkest ways
Throws gleam of living light. His steady praise
Of truth and right
his lesson firm and strong--
Our lives are not our own that they belong
To God--is here to comfort and to raise.
Then while we weep for him our laurelled king
Our hearts can truly say he is not dead
Nay more! He sleeps not but with undimmed mind
Still works among us still abides to bring
Balm to the bleeding hearts whence hope has fled
Strength to the weak light to the groping blind.

Poets write things in which they don't believe.
What does this mean? We don't believe in love?
We don't believe that Adam and that Eve
Our ancient parents heard a Voice above
Telling them not to eat that apple of
Knowledge of right and wrong? No none of these.
It means belief which none of us may prove
Is not our function: those are privacies
Specific to the soul that waits release
From bondage to the body to its greater
Lasting and uncommemorative peace
That happens after death and even later.
What poets don't believe in meaning death
Was proved fallacious ere they drew their breath.

"Submission to the will of God" is good
Yet what the will of God is none can say
Though many people have it understood
And gladly condescend to show the way.
"The Lord wills this" "the Lord wills that" one hears
As if they have a secret channel to
His innermost desire - their hopes and fears
As congruous with what He'd have them do.
"When Christians came and brought the Bible we
Possessed the land
but now we have the Bible
They the land" - wherefore servility
Is preached and blasphemy a form of libel.
So Creeds have ever confiscated booty
And yoked the dispossessed to heaven's duty. 

Lithe limbs my limbs did once enfold
Soft lips my lips did parting kiss
Such grace as man may once behold
Then parting from forever miss.
Sweet breath with my breath intermingled
As passion pressed us close together
In unison as bodies tingled
Not knowing which was either neither.
Light-murmured words of deep import
As tuned my ear to their caressing
As gentleness became our sport
Gentility our only blessing.
Wild days of love yet numbered few -
And since 'tis years since I had you. 

Soft-spoken mild obedient
A good girl who believes in God
Such was the blessing I was sent
Who let me love her mind and bod.
She wasn't old but she was wise
In how a woman serves a man
And gives him not just sweetest eyes
But her allegiance as she can.
Devotion Lord and rites of passion
As in the holy name fulfilled
Not jealousy nor quest for fashion
To ever see his passion killed.
Forgive me Lord if it is wrong
For many loves as this to long.

Lord if Thy will permits it please
Forgive my errors of the past
And me to better days release
From misspent hopes and fears miscast.
Lord if my body lets me have
The fairer sex to hold as mine
But as a lover not a slave
Obedient to things divine
And if Thy will permits it Lord
A harem and seraglio
But pleasant not some angry hoard
Where I may keep my women so -
So let me if Thou canst approve
But let me not forsake Thy love.

Forgive me God if this is wrong
But I believe it isn't so
For I have had this passion strong
Since in my early days of woe.
But let Thy will be done not mine
And what I ask for never be
Unless with Thy intent divine
The hopes I have don't disagree.
I'd rather be a pauper poor
Devoid of even slightest ease
Than have fulfilled this wish and more
If with Thy will it disagrees.
Thy mercy Lord is all I ask
To teach me to fulfill Thy task.

Lord this I never had to ask
Did she my older love remain
Without whom life's a loathsome task
But full of sorrow strife and pain
Had she been faithful fair and true
Much as she promised me to be
And not to do as women do
Which I believed - so look at me!
My heart and soul to her I gave
Naive because I loved too well
A person I might never have
Nor what we had must ever tell.
Wherefore dear Lord do I beseech
To compass loves within my reach.

These names I keep repeating such as Keats
And Hopkins part of the unique succession
Of poetry's transmission each one meets
Make up my rosary hear my confession.
These names make up my mantra I repeat
My Japa in my fervid state of mind
When other thoughts have all been obsolete
In guiding me to where I am inclined.
What is this madness Lord? What this despair
Tormenting me and seemingly unceasing
When all my efforts lead me to no where
And all my burdens seem to be increasing?
Their thought the same weird journey having taken
Doth comfort me - that yet may be mistaken.

Dear God! a life as lived between extremes
Either the one intractable enforcement
Of chastity that's anchored to false dreams
Pretending to morality's endorsement
Or else the opposite abandonment
Of all pretense to individuation
In love's pursuit to moral decrement -
These both I've known but never mediation.
God like as land that suffers dearth and flood
In alternating waves thus have I been
Either too cold or else too hot the blood
And never gradiation in between.
Now after years of heaven years of hell
My body that was strong is but a shell.

Hast dropped thy litter pregnant Calico
And thou a pup thyself - I see thou art
Less full in belly which before did show
Rotund thy load not nature's plan athwart.
So young - the neighbors seeing one depart
Its comfort's confines of thy heaving womb
Did say of thee "She ran off with a start
With that old Tom" - I asked who? "Old grey Tom" -
Like as to implicate thee as a mom
Unfit for child-rearing. They the kitten
Did scoop so they did say to take to home
They with its weak debility all smitten.
Yet "unfit moms" so-called are often fitter
Than high-bred dames like these to have a litter.

One must be strong
but Father it is hard
So hard when all about us we observe
That falsehood and deceit seem to reward
While truth and faith most torture that most serve.
This all have seen - and Justice only known
By its heartwrenching absence in mans world
The ancient Confidence to heaven flown
Or else down to the craggy hellholds hurled.
Yet Lord deliver me from the deserved
For what do I deserve but death most foul?
Forgive me in that I have greatly swerved
From Thine intent and nearly lost my soul
An hundred times and body all unnerved -
An hundred hundred times - Lord keep me whole!

So I and thou it could be me and you
Kiddo but that was once and might have been
But this is now and I forever true
Could not have been in light of what Ive seen.
For I have seen abjectly the reversal
Of every thought I thought I ever had
My empty bag now scattered for dispersal
Its contents mostly good when they are bad.
So furthermore on thee I lavish praise
To mock myself that is cheap counterfeit
Of thee derived from thee whom I always
Do plunder for my thought's unlettered writ.
So so it goes. Thou reader stand unfazed:
For if you saw her face you'd be amazed.

In the black flower of midnight--at the heart
And midmost auricle of secrecy
There lies the golden fire-seed that shall be
The day's broad blossom. Softly fall apart
The silken leaves of dreams
and lo! thou art
Sweet morn of expectation dewy-drest!
While all the spectres that the dark infest
Soon as the East doth his keen lances dart
Show angel faces. Why avert the shade--
The solemn vigil--the mysterious power
Filling the soul with awe stirring the clod
Bidding the bones to quake? 'Tis thus arrayed
In dusky calyx lies heaven's shining flower.

Our Angel leads through gloom to show us God.
Working as erst by law not miracle
By genius God doth lift a common soul
To some still spot where it may glimpse the goal
Bidding it on the mountain heights to dwell
Yet not so far apart but it may tell
To toilers in the plain below the whole
Of the vision. Master still the organ-roll
Of thy deep music vibrates and its spell
Aids the uplift that stirs our grosser clay
To rise and seek the heights. O soul God set
A little lower than his white angels yet
A round for man to climb the starward way
Thou art. One palm with angels' long since met
The other warm in man's grasp still doth stay.

It fell as softly as the winter's snow:
There was no sound of storm nor any stress
No fevered daring of Death's mightiness
No struggle for a strong man's overthrow:
Just some few hours of moaning soft and low
Some hard-drawn breathing quickly hushed ah yes!
And then--and then--small white limbs motionless
While we who wait must whisper as we go.
A face and voice we looked for lovingly
Lost from the fellowship of our small band:
One little ripple of Life's restless sea
Soothed into stillness by the Master's hand
And missing here:--but a white soul to stand
In the vast Temple of Eternity.

When midst the summer-roses the warm bees
Are swarming in the sun and thou--so full
Of innocent glee--dost with thy white hands pull
Pink scented apples from the garden trees
To fling at me I catch them on my knees
Like those who gathered manna
and I cull
Some hasty buds to pelt thee--white as wool
Lilies or yellow jonquils or heartsease
Then I can speak my love even though thy smiles
Gush out among thy blushes like a flock
Of bright birds from rose-bowers
but when thou'rt gone
I have no speech--no magic that beguiles
The stream of utterance from the hardened rock:--
The dial cannot speak without the sun!

Ye hills of Scotia by whose winding sides
The brawling stream of Esk so swiftly flows
On whose wild banks a varied forest grows
And the birch vibrates as the current glides
While over your crags the rack incessant glides
Athwart the steeps a moving mantle throws
Or like that pillar vast majestic goes
Which marshalled Israel through Egyptian tides:
O take me to your calm retreats again!
Even in such scenes amid your gloom I find
A ray of pensive hope to cheer my mind
That heavenly mercies brighter hours ordain:
For see though storms blacken the vale below
The auspicious bow on high in rich prismatic glow.

The world is too much with us
late and soon
Getting and spending  we lay waste our powers:
Little we see in Nature that is ours
We have given our hearts away a sordid boon!
The Sea that bares her bosom to the moon
The winds that will be howling at all hours
And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers
For this for everything we are out of tune
It moves us not.--Great God! I'd rather be
A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn
So might I standing on this pleasant lea
Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn
Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea
Or hear old Triton blow his wreathd horn. 

Nuns fret not at their convent's narrow room
And hermits are contented with their cells
And students with their pensive citadels
Maids at the wheel the weaver at his loom
Sit blithe and happy
bees that soar for bloom
High as the highest Peak of Furness-fells
Will murmur by the hour in foxglove bells:
In truth the prison into which we doom
Ourselves no prison is: and hence for me
In sundry moods 'twas pastime to be bound
Within the Sonnet's scanty plot of ground
Pleased if some Souls (for such there needs must be)
Who have felt the weight of too much liberty
Should find brief solace there as I have found. 

Great men have been among us
hands that penned
And tongues that uttered wisdom--better none:
The later Sidney Marvel Harrington
Young Vane and others who called Milton friend.
These moralists could act and comprehend:
They knew how genuine glory was put on
Taught us how rightfully nation shone
In splendour: what strength was that would not bend
But in magnanimous meekness. France 'tis strange
Hath brought forth no such souls as we had then.
Perpetual emptiness! unceasing change!
No single volume paramount no code
No master spirit no determined road
But equally a want of books and men!
The world is locked in sleep with perfect night.

Gazing from out my window I behold
The moon a burnished bowl of gleaming gold
Hung in mid-sky with azure wine brimmed bright.
The sentinel church-spire lifts its stately height
And where the vane upon its crest is bold
A single wanderer from the starry fold
Shines cold and spectral with its twinkling light.
White are the roofs in crystal garments all
Unheard the murmuring streamlet's rhythmic flow--
Weird shapes upon the spotless waste of snow
The tree trunks stand where their gaunt shadows fall.
Blest hour of rest--gift of a hand Divine!
What quiet peace tranquillity are thine!

At noon of night the goddess silver-stoled
Came with light foot across the moonlit land
And breezes soft as blow o'er Samarcand
Stirred her free hair that glinted like clear gold
Sweet were her smiling lips as when of old
Vertumnus wooed her on the grassy strand
Of some swift Tuscan river overspanned
By sunny skies that knew no breath of cold.
So when the door of dawn grew aureate
And broken was the dim night's peaceful hush
By harvesters uprisen to greet the morn
They knew Pomona had passed by in state
For on the apples was a rosier blush
And on the grapes a richer lustre born.

Behold a billowy sea of golden spears
That to and fro in every breeze that blows
Tosses its amber waves and proudly shows
Bright scarlet poppies when the warm wind veers.
Hearken and lo! there falls upon the ears
A song as mellow as the one that rose
From Boaz's fields at daytime's drowsy close
And thrilled his heart in those dim Hebrew years.
And the swart mower leaning on his scythe
To catch the swelling music clear and blythe
Thinks as his eyes with love-light brim and glow
That she who sings the while the bright beams fade
Is far diviner than the lovely maid
Who gleaned in fields Judaean long ago.

A Triton drowsy as the god of Sleep
From horn uplifted pours a limpid stream
Athwart whose falling drops the sunbeams gleam
Through waving boughs that span the crystal deep.
From brooding branches bright-eyed nestlings peep
The merry sylvan choirs are hushed in dream
And all the voices of the mid-day seem
Within some slumbering warder's wakeless keep.
Into a shadowy moss-rimmed pool like this
Musing of dead delight and longed-for bliss
The while the murmurous water lapped the shore
Alluring nymphs with smiles and amorous breath
Drew the young Hylas down to meet his death
Amid the silvery reeds that noon of yore. 

As perfect in their symmetry as thine
O inarticulate marble lips were those
My love once raised to mine yet tinged with rose
And freighted with a redolence divine.
Her poise of head was queenly
fair and fine
Her alabaster arms that shamed the snows
Her gracious bearing had thy pure repose
And stately was she as the forest pine.
Knowledge sat throned upon her regal brow
Round which her tresses rippled bright as gold
Sweet as a songbird's on a budding bough
The liquid voice that from her lips outrolled
But lo! there came an awful change and now
Thou in thine icy hush art not more cold! 

In the profound and dreadful calm of night
Worn with the newness of my grief I come
Dry-eyed and fall beside you spent and dumb
Dreading the dawn with all its aching light
Dreading the day and all it holds for me
Of restlessness and forms that come and go
New things to do new things to see and know
That were not yet when you were there to see
And shut my eyes and for a while pretend
That I can lean against you feel your hand
Hear your heart beat and know you understand
Though you are farther than the wide world's end.
Ah! My Belovd swiftly silently
Surely your kind kind ghost shall comfort me.

It cannot be that you shall no more come
Radiant with laughter holding hands for mine
Seeking my soul for Love's most earnest sign
Meeting my thought with eloquent thought and dumb
It cannot be that I must look for you
There where the Summer flames and find you not
Of splendid sunsets know you all forgot
Nor find you in the rain nor the sky's blue.
For here the lily all her sweetness yields
And all my heart is open to the sun
And seeking peace in grief the long day done
I find it in the silver moonlit fields.
Then by the beauty of the world I know
That you are here and will not let me go

In the white sweetness of her dimpled chin
The pink points of her perfumed fingers press
And 'round her tremulous mouth's loveliness
The tears and smiles a sudden strife begin:
First one and then the other seems to win:
And o'er her drooping eyes a golden tress
Falls down to hide what else they might confess
Their blue-veined lids are striving to shut in.
The yellow pearls that bind her throat about
With her pale bosom's throbbing rise or fall:
The while her thoughts like carrier-doves have fled
To that far land where armies clash and shout
And where beyond love's reach a soldier tall
With staring eyes and broken sword lies dead.

We oft are sorrowful yet have no word
To tell why gloom has settled on the day
Like clouds that blot the azure field with gray
We know not why the singing of a bird
Touches the soul to pain as if we heard
Within the voice another music say
Things not translated in our human way
We pierce ourselves with blame yet have not erred.
Exiles we are and when the outreaching heart
Is quickened to sense its native atmosphere
When through the fair world's form the spirit part
Reveals itself an instant passing dear
When in a flower's sweet face new meanings dart
We mourn shut out for that which is so near.

It is the precious province of true thought--
Of the divine creations of the mind--
To live unwearied in a heart overwrought
By busy intercourse with town--Mankind:
Poor merchant I! whom the dull world's trade-wind
Blows ever onward on a steady sea
Feel oftentimes mid murkiest men refined
By visitants that come alone to me.
Perchance I class not with the worldly wise
But mine is not the spirit that avoids
Mid temporal dealings these communions strange
Albeit "disgracious to the city's eyes"
Often I meet rare Trinculo at Lloyd's!
And Hamlet sweetly walks with me on 'Change! 

The cold transparent ham is on my fork
It hardly rains--and hark the bell!--ding dingle
Away! Three thousand feet at gravel work
Mocking a Vauxhall shower!--Married and single
Crush--rush
--soaked silks with wet white satin mingle.
Hengler! Madame! round whom all bright sparks lurk
Calls audibly on Mr. and Mrs. Pringle
To study the sublime &c.--(vide Burke)
All noses are upturned! Whish-ish!--on high
The rocket rushes trails just steals in sight--
Then droops and melts in bubbles of blue light--
And darkness reigns--then balls flare up and die--
Wheels whiz--smack crackers--serpents twist--and then
Back to the cold transparent ham again!

Yet that have hearts vexed with unquiet thought
Of worldly grievance and of lost delight
Oh! turn to Spenser's Faerie Tale--so fraught
With all that's mild and beautiful and bright--
There revel in the fancies he hath wroght--
Fancies more fair than May--or morning light--
Or solitary star awake at night--
Or breath from Lovers' lips in kisses caught.
Sweet Spenser! how I love thy faerie pages--
Where gentle Una lives so radiantly
Fair is thy record of romantic ages
And calm and pure the pleasure which it yields:
While life and thought are with me--thou shalt be
My dear companion in the silent fields. 

Sorrow hath made thine eyes more dark and keen
And set a whiter hue upon thy cheeks
And round thy pressd lips drawn anguish-streaks
And made thy forehead fearfully serene.
Even in thy steady hair her work is seen
For its still parted darkness--till it breaks
In heavy curls upon thy shoulders--speaks
Like the stern wave how hard the storm hath been.
So looked that hapless Lady of the south
Sweet Isabella at the dreary part
Of all the passioned hours of her youth
When her green basil pot by brothers' art
Was stolen away: so looked her paind mouth
In the mute patience of a breaking heart. 

Quickly and pleasantly the seasons blow
Over the meadows of eternity
As wave on wave the pulsings of the sea
Merge and are lost each in the other's flow.
Time is no lover
it is only he
That is the one unconquerable foe
He is the sudden tempest none can know
Winged with swift winds that none may hope to flee.
Fair child of loveliness these endless fears
Are nought to us
let us be gods of stone
And set our images beyond the years
On some high mount where we can be alone
And thou shalt ever be as now thou art
And I shall watch thee with untroubled heart.

The golden spring redeems the withered year
And wherefore should my spirit be afraid
Though autumn winds wail through the smoky shade
And chill me like the fleeting ghost of fear?
Sweet love of youth I know that thou must fade
I know what nameless spectres hover near
And that the loveliness I hold so dear
Borrowed from dust to ashes must be paid.
Yet linger still over these wasted meadows
Faint shreds of song and scattered scents of flowers
And from the heart's abyss of deepening shadows
Rise the young passions of immortal hours.
The golden spring its withered year redeems
Sleep comes at last but sleep made rich with dreams.

Then judge me as thou wilt I cannot flee
I cannot turn away from thee forever
For there are bonds that wisdom cannot sever
And slaves with souls far freer than the free.
Such strong desires the Universal Giver
With unknown plan has buried deep in me
That the passionate joy of watching thee
Has dominated all my life's endeavor.
Thou weariest of having me so near
I feel the scorn thou hast within thy heart
And yet the face has never seemed so dear
As now when I am minded to depart.
Though thou shalt drive me hence I love thee so

To make my days impatient with unrest
To filch the quiet of the dark's repose
Seeking forever what my soul well knows
Is ever far beyond my farthest quest
--
So this is love
swift joys and lingering woes
A wistful kiss beneath the ashen west
Farewell and greeting mouth to mouth once pressed
And then the empty darkness onward flows.
The heights that I have won do not endure
They shrink beneath the stars I yearn to win
The triumphs of my passion only lure
My vagrant feet to tread the verge of sin
Though well I know that when I fall thereover
Love will fly hence
the loved one and the lover. 

I cannot yet admit unchecked despair
Since now my heart this unknown conflict wages
I know not what the endless strife presages
I dare not welcome hope nor exile care.
For love with fear and hope with grief engages
And I the burden of the battle bear
Friends there are none foes I have everywhere
Hope lies grief stabs and still the combat rages.
And thou sweet monarch of my love hast wrought
This ruin on my land of Venily
And sown rebellion in my humblest thought
Making my dreams deal traitorously with me
But stay I would not that this struggle cease
For having thee is better far than peace. 

How should I think of thee but with delight?
How should I greet thy face but with a smile?
And yet dark tears within my heart defile
The dreams of thee that I would have so bright.
If thou shouldst come and end this lonely while
These leaden hours of the sleepless night
Still should I fear to show thee what I write
Lest I repent in vain and thou revile.
Yet couldst thou read these scriptures of my heart
Graven in passion with no base control
For one brief moment then they might impart
Some almost worthy offering from my soul.
I write for thee and cannot let thee read
Thus love denies itself its utmost need. 

How strange it is that thine ethereal grace
Should make me sorry by its loveliness
For surely beauty is designed to bless
Those hours of youth that have so short a race
And yet the memory of some old distress
Shadows me over when I see thy face
And yearning ever for one swift embrace
Has tinged my joy in thee with bitterness.
The young smiles flashing brightly free and fair
The laughing stars that in thy deep eyes shine--
It is not love for me that lights them there
I see their beauty but they are not mine.
Thy loveliness is joy poisoned with pain
Rapture to love torment to love in vain. 

The rising deluges of circumstance
Have flooded all the gardens of my dreams
No more the inner sun of gladness gleams
Upon pale flowers of a lover's trance.
Dear Love I know not why this torrent seems
To drown in turbid billowings of chance
The blossoms of thy visioned countenance
Soiling my richest thoughts with earthy streams.
The river of the world is ever strong
I would that I could leave this doubtful shore
And yet I linger hoping that ere long
The swirling tide will crush my dreams no more.
And if my gardens ever bloom again
How fair will be thy perfect blossom then!

thou shalt seek for long"
I love devoutly
thou shalt seek for long
Ere thou receive another offering
Such as these passionate tributes that I bring
With all the deep submission of the strong.
I would that all my chants of thee could ring
Through the great sorrows of the nameless throng
And that thy beauty echoing in my song
Could wake the weary city into spring.
Since thou hast changed my life and in my heart
Hast deep implanted this new love of life
Perchance these phantoms of thee will impart
Beauty and courage to a world at strife.
And yet I tarry long in fear to share
With common men a song of one so fair.

I speak as one"
Let those who love hear me
I speak as one
Who hath known every portion of love's pain
And all the swift delights that flare and wane
Between the setting and the rising sun.
Sins have I known whose sweetness left no stain
And virtues that much villainy have done
But now the pattern that my heart has spun
Is finished and I see that it is vain.
Vain is the virgin kiss and vain the thought
That binds the heart's desire from afar
Each loves the image his own mind has wrought
Each worships no true spirit but a star.
By none is this believed until the years
Reveal the sad deception and with tears.

We have come back to one another
yes
After long languishing in spheres apart
Thou hast returned since Love's own self thou art
And I in penitence and fearfulness.
O gentle Love that leaves me not to smart
Forever in the clutches of distress
When with a kindly pardon thou canst bless
Consummately my long-disconsolate heart
Forgive me yet again if to this joy
I do not rise at once from melancholy
Mine was the utmost sin thus to destroy
Our calm devotion with unbridled folly
Bear with me yet awhile until I prove
The tenderness of all-repentant love. 

I will fling wide the windows of my soul
Under the deep hush of nocturnal skies
When the white legions of the stars arise
And write their secrets on the Master's scroll.
I will go forth and watch with slumberous eyes
The languid billows of the ocean roll
In silver rhythms on some hidden shoal
Swelling with laughter falling back with sighs.
And in the tranquil twilight of that place
The lovely solitude of lonely sands
Will flash the pale resplendence of thy grace
In sudden beauty out of other lands
And I will kneel and kiss thine ivory hands
Beneath the flowered music of thy face.

Poor faltering lines my weary soul's relief
The balm of passion opiate of pain.
A mightier hand than mine a mightier brain
Had wrought in you an immemorial grief.
But though my love and art both prove in vain
Wither and die with me I had as lief
That it were so
respite however brief
Is all-sufficient to the living-slain.
For separate voices sink at eventide
And none survives the creeping hush of time
Nought lives but life
the fame of them that died
Brings back no vestige of their lovely prime
Fame and oblivion shall merge again
In nameless loves and laughter tears and pain. 

Let all men see the ruins of the shrine
That I with passionate and holy care
Built long ago from laughter and despair
That godly love might have a fane divine.
Let the wide wings of darkness hover where
The god of youth once drank his rarest wine
And let the rank breath of some poisoned vine
Choke the last sigh that lingers on the air.
Hurl the white sanctuary down and bare
Its inmost secrets to the gaze of men
Unveil the altar to the vulgar stare
And let none seek it build it up agin
--
Ah when the last wall crumbles stone by stone
I shall go hence that I may weep alone. 

How oft the traitor trumpet sounds retreat
Beguiling my bewildered soul again
When all the forces on the battle-plain
Are ready to do homage at my feet
And when I fight with strength it is in vain
For then I find no foe before my eyes
They lurk in shadow waiting to surprise
My soul when it is weary and in pain.
How shall I gauge the conflict and the odds
Misled and blinded in the midst of strife?
How shall I know mine enemy? O gods
Grant me one moment worthy of my life
To see at last beyond the dust and shade
And face real foemen strong and unafraid.

Even as love grows more I write the less
Impelled to speak unable still to voice
The lyric thoughts like angels that rejoice
Attendant on thy godly loveliness.
Stay the bright swallow high in airy poise
Carve out of stone an infinite caress
Garner the fruits of tears and happiness
Make bloom forever what an hour destroys
Then shamed by such unprecedented skill
I may find words to name thee and to sing
Such praises of thy beauty as shall fill
The listening world with floods of carolling
Till then thou art like starlight on the air
Or clouds at dawn unutterably fair. 

Voice that art life to me I almost hear
Thy sweet familiar cadence on the breeze
At times a far call infinitely clear
Face that art love to me my spirit sees
In each unfolding bud of the young year
Imperfect shadows of thy grace appear
For thou dear one art fairer than all these
Soul that art part of me at last I know
What murmurs on the wakening breezes blow
What hand of ivory pours out the wine
Filling the cup of spring to overflow
All beauty mirrors what is only thine
And thou the source not mortal but divine.

Lovely art thou and everything of thine
Reflects the glory of thy noble grace
That thou shouldst have returned my swift embrace
Has made me feel that I too am divine.
My spirit met thy spirit face to face
Thy godlike heart has not rejected mine
And I have been uplifted in the shrine
And high exalted in the holy place.
Think not that thou or I shall ever fade
Forgotten in the silence of the years
We are but one this world of myth and shade
Shall not appall us with its dusty fears
If Death should find the hearts whom Love hath kissed
We never met and nothing doth exist.

Although the spring is hastening to pursue
The swift white deer of winter through the glades
Sometimes they pause for breath beneath the shades
Then blows the frozen hurricane anew.
And so the chill of thy neglect invades
My heart in which of late a timid few
Flowers began to spring until there blew
This sudden storm blighting the tender blades.
But when April at last shall put to flight
The pallid cohorts of the lingering snow
And every leaf lifts upward to the light
And every spirit blossoms from its woe
Ah then relent and let me have my share
Of joy and rise up radiant from care. 

To walk beside the river in the dawn
Is fair indeed when spring is in the breeze
Bird-carollings the mumbling hum of bees
Sing matins from the dew-bespangled lawn
And dancing there behind those druid trees
Lurks in delight a little singing faun
Who laughs at us and yet is always gone
When we would trace his scattered melodies.
Alone dear love with thee and the new day
Now am I radiant like the golden fields
No distant longing and no dim dismay
Nought but the gladness that the hour yields.
To walk beside the river is most fair
When Love is young and spring is in the air! 

Two lovers stood alone beneath the night
And quickened with a sudden strength one said
"To-night is ours to snatch from out the dead
An immortality of vast delight.
When Youth has felt the touch of time and fled
When Love in chill despair has taken flight
There is one joy that knows not change nor blight--
Ah kiss me ere the fleeting hour be sped!"
The hovering moon leaned low in rapt desire
Two souls uprose beyond oblivion
A shout triumphal shook the starry choir
Then sacred silence fell until the sun
Gazed like a victor as he gazes now
On the new day and the undying vow.

Fly joyous wind through all the wakened earth
Now when the portals of the dawn outpour
Laughter and radiant sunlight from the store
Of spring's glad passion and loud-ringing mirth.
Cry to the world that I despair no more
Heart greets my heart and hope has proved its worth
Fly where the meadows swell in flowery birth
Chant everywhere and everywhere adore.
Circle the basking hills in fragrant flight
Shout "Rapture! Rapture!" if sweet sorrow passes
And whisper low in intimate delight
My love-song to the undulating grasses.
Grief is no more Love rises with the spring
O fly free wind and "Rapture! Rapture!" sing. 

Over the waters but a single bough
Stretches in silhouette against the moon
The little dark waves haunt the dim lagoon
And splash against the languid-moving prow.
I should have left thee when the afternoon
Surrendered to pursuing night for now
Too perilously dear and fair art thou
And love too soon invoked shall die too soon.
I fear the very floods of happiness
That swell the narrow chambers of my heart
Knowing indeed that with our first caress
Contentment and my soul forever part
O night of love and beauty all the years
Shall pay for thy brief ecstasy with tears.

There was a boy in some forgotten spring
Who fled from all his comrades at the school
And in the hills beside a forest pool
Lay on the grass watching and listening.
And as he listened melancholy delight
Stirred in his heart a pang he did not know
And voices of new passion bade him write
Of the vague thoughts that shook his spirit so.
Now on the battlefield of later times
I meet those dreams returning in the forms
Of mighty friends and foes amid the strife
And reading those imperfect boyish rhymes
I hear through the blown dust of many storms
The hymns of the advance-guard of my life. 

Now would that thou wert here my happiness
Here in the flesh or else completely gone
Out of my life out of my thoughts withdrawn
And memory clean of love and old distress.
Night dreams in pain of thee and on that lawn
Where we would sit at eventide and press
Heart against heart only white loneliness
Stretches beneath the winter's cheerless dawn.
Thou woundest me with absence all the air
Seems echoing thy name and through the day
I woo forgetfulness but unaware
My thoughts return to our farewell caress.
Now would that thou wert here my happiness
Joy dwells with thee and thou art far away. 

What though the night be dissonant with rain
And roofs drip in a mournful monotone
On the deserted streets and breezes moan
Over the naked boughs like ghosts in pain
Yet are there voices through the darkness blown
From some remote celestial domain
That hint of peace and scatter all the vain
Questions that mock the soul brooding alone.
All nights are beautiful but in the warm
Wet darkness that knows neither stars nor moon
Whose bells half-heard through the complaining storm
Bind the wind's discords in harmonious tune
The soul withdraws into its cave of rest
And dreams long dreams well-loved but not expressed.

About the headlands and the rocky shoals
I hear the breath of twilight sighing sighing
And over the wail and dash of breakers crying
The voices of old ships and wandering souls.
Through the wet air squadrons of gulls are flying
Wheeling but once against the skies then tossed
Into the wind like a flight of visions lost
With vanished souls into the darkness dying.
O harp of the winds singing above the dead
O rush of wings over the turbulent deep
Pray for the spirits uncompanioned
The dreams returned into oblivion
The men drifting far from the stars and sun
Lost in a lonely night and a loveless sleep. 

The insurgent sea sweeps through the barrier
Triumphant all its foaming strength amassed
In one tempestuous tide wallowing past
The broken banks and the worn dykes that were
Upbuilt by coward hearts
sated at last
It settles in calm pools about the bar
So that at twilight the young evening star
Beholds its image in still waters cast.
Against unyielding shores I too have striven
And won at last like the uprising sea
And sink to rest beneath a quiet heaven
After long struggles a long victory
But my star vanishes its light withdrawn
And darkness falls unpromising of dawn.

Speak not of waning love and changing days
Youth may be short and life may not endure
Yet with a strength unslacked a vision sure
My love companions thee in all thy ways.
Whither thou wanderest in times unsure
Of peace however far thy spirit strays
From love of me my spirit ever stays
Close to thy side and there shall rest secure.
If thou shouldst weary of me and alone
I walked with grief yet should I be aware
How far unworthy I had been to share
In thy diviner life or sing thy praise
If thou shouldst hate me yet I am thine own--
Speak not of waning love and changing days.

Who follows Love shall walk in outland places
Beyond the common cheer of hall and town
He shall forget all things the friendly faces
The strife for wealth the struggle for renown.
A young crusader putting by his crown
A pilgrim following a holy vision
Heeding nor threat of king nor gibe of clown
The tyrant's hatred nor the world's derision--
Thus shall he wander
in no bright Elysian
Meadows shall be his quest but through the vast
And midnight fears that shake his heart's decision
With staring madness till he see at last
Like Parsifal in ages long ago
Love's flaming chalice out of darkness glow.

Only last night we dwelt together we
Whose lips the ultimate farewells enthrall
Last night itself is but a stone let fall
Into the chasm of eternity.
There shall be echoes I shall hear them call
However faint however far they be
There shall be shadows I shall always see
Them beckon from Time's memory-haunted hall.
The drear mirages of the years gone by
Glow falsely golden from their dark domain
But now they stir me not. "Mere mockery"
Low to my heart I say to still its pain
And cloud-built cities in the sunset sky
Fade out in dark across the endless plain.

Thou only wert my hope and thou art gone.
Thou the one star in monotones of sky
Art vanished like a meteor and I
Lost in the night have ceased to pray for dawn.
I watched thee fade I saw thee passing by
And tried to call thee but my lips were dumb
It had been better hadst thou never come--
Remembered riches mock my poverty.
Blow from afar the little sounds of bells
Wood-smoke hangs thinly on the autumn air
The town's unconscious hush is like a prayer
And night sleeps pleasantly among the dells
I only wander on and know not where
Through the great dark pursued by faint farewells. 

If in some fair Elysian seclusion
We yet shall find the dreams that we have wrought
To guide our souls while the dark strife is fought
Amongst these shades moving in black confusion
If with our finite sorrows we have bought
Infinite joy safe from the world's intrusion
And in this wilderness of blind delusion
Have sought one vision worthy to be sought
Then we are not irrevocably parted
But fighting upward each in his own fashion
From mortal dust to an immortal passion
Separate in earthly chance yet single-hearted
We that in steep and lonely paths have trod
At dawn shall meet before the face of God. 

Long after both of us are scattered dust
And alien souls perchance shall read of thee
Guessing the passions that have crushed from me
These poor confessions of my love and trust
Ah well I know how heartless they will be
For some will laugh and others more unjust
Whose minds know not of love but only lust
Will stain the vesture of our memory.
And yet a few there may be who will feel
My true devotion and my deep desires
And know that these unhappy lines reveal
Only new images in changeless fires
And they indeed will linger with a sigh
To think that beauty such as thine must die.

Thou fair-hair'd angel of the evening
Now whilst the sun rests on the mountains light
Thy bright torch of love
thy radiant crown
Put on and smile upon our evening bed!
Smile on our loves and while thou drawest the
Blue curtains of the sky scatter thy silver dew
On every flower that shuts its sweet eyes
In timely sleep. Let thy west wind sleep on
The lake
speak silence with thy glimmering eyes
And wash the dusk with silver. Soon full soon
Dost thou withdraw
then the wolf rages wide
And the lion glares thro' the dun forest:
The fleeces of our flocks are cover'd with
Thy sacred dew: protect them with thine influence.

I've viewed the pit where as in scorn were thrown
The bones of Chatterton
and here I see
Where first the muses marked him for their own
Emerging from the dawn of infancy.--
Children! He once was blithe as now ye are
The life-beam glittering in his ardent eye:
But guilt and melancholy and despair
Pointing their future prey passed darkling by.
Ah! what is genius? It is a burning brand
Like that the cherub bore to guard the way
To Paradise. If grace support the hand
That wields it then its radiant flame shall play
In glory round
else shall its lightnings burst
And strike their victim down--scathed and accursed.

Bay of the Mount! whose opening coasts are spread
From Mousehole Island to the twin-starred Lizard
Whose waves are speckled with the mullet red
From head to tail all good--except the gizzard
Whose sons the patriotic flame display
Which warmed the breast of Hampdens and of Sidneys
Whose sloping headlands with potatoes gay
Bloom with the scarlet robe and silvery kidneys:
O! land of yellow ling and powdered hake!
O! cornucopia of clouted cream
O! nurse of matrons skilled the pie to bake
Beneath the furze-fired kettle! Not a ream
Of folio paper from the stores of Hewett
If I could write thy praise would give me room to do it.

An angel's wing is waving over their head
While they the brother and the sister walk
Nor dare as heedless of its fanning talk
Of woes which are not buried with the dead.
Hand clasped in hand they move
adown their cheek
From the full heart-spring tears overflowing gush
Close and more close they clasp as if to speak
Would wake the sorrows which they seek to hush.
Down to the mansion slow their footsteps tend
Where blank despair is soothed by mercy's spell
Pausing in momentary prayer to bend
Ere the cheered sister passes to her cell
Sure in the hope that yet there will be given
Calm and sweet hours of peace--foretastes of heaven. 

Coleridge of boyhood in the early dawn
Oppressed I felt not nor of hope forlorn
Grasping your hand. You spoke as though our school
Were of a separate world the vestibule
And we its habitants.--In cloistered walk
While such of opening scenes your cherished talk
I listened breathless
--and I saw you prove
Your boded triumphs in the college grove.
Thence by a sudden plunge amid their strife
You sprang into the waves of this world's life
Nor paused.--Far far away it was mine to hear
Fame of your struggles and the applauding cheer.
At last of wondrous boy of bard of sage
Sank beneath friendship's roof the sheltered age.

A plaintive sonnet flowed from Milton's pen
When time had stolen his three and twentieth year:
Say shall not I then shed one tuneful tear
Robbed by the thief of three-score years and ten?
No! for the foes of all life-lengthened men
Trouble and toil approach not yet too near
Reason meanwhile and health and memory dear
Hold unimpaired their weak yet wonted reign.
Still round my sheltered lawn I pleased can stray
Still trace my sylvan blessings to their spring:
Being of beings! yes that silent lay
Which musing gratitude delights to sing
Still to thy sapphire throne shall faith convey
And hope the cherub of unwearied wing.

O Sleep good mother of enchanting dreams
Within thy soothing arms oh let me lie
What time the night-wind sings a lullaby
And the moon kisses down with cooling gleams
Mine eyelids weary of day's sultry beams
Then let thy rarest visions come anigh
Dead hopes fulfilled in perfect radiancy
Whose fairness all my waking pain redeems
With Loline let me stray through jasmine bowers
A balmy world of love whose stars are flowers
Where zephyrs sigh in such a tender way
They seem to breathe the words we long to say
And when these dreams have come good Sleep ah then
I pray thee do not let me wake again. 

Sure 'tis the voice of choired saints that flows
Along the billows of the softened breeze. . .
And now in falls and dying symphonies
So sweet it glides that forth my rapt soul goes
To join those hymnings ta'en from all her woes.
Yet once more and once more ye minstrelsies
Of power my stormy spirit to appease
With some dissolving dream my thoughts compose. . .
Again your strains float sinking on the wind
Soft wild and mournful all
now melt away
Faintly perceived like some expiring ray
Of memory that trembles o'er the mind
Lovely in its departure still enshrined
As the blest relic of a happy day. (

O crimson-hearted flower-producing June--
Dear month of love and laughter and light song!
Wherein our mother brings her choral throng
To hymn the hymns that sweetest are in tune:
Wherein all gaily goes gave soul of wrong
That takes to bed quite blinded by the light
Of that sweet sober gentle queen of night
That rules the tides of earth and men--the moon
I love you! for it was beneath your skies
I first looked Love into her starry eyes
I love you! for beneath your dome of blue
I heard her answer--"And I love you too!"
I hate you!--'mid your flowers it was my lot
To hear those same lips say--"I love you not!" 

Wisdom immortal from immortal Jove
Shadows more beauty with her virgin brows
Than is between the virgin breasts of Love
Who makes at will and breaks her random vows
And hath a name all earthly names above:
The noblest are her offspring
she controls
The time and seasons--yea all things that are--
The heads and hands of men their hearts and souls
And all that moves upon our mother star
And all that pauses 'twixt the peaceful poles.
Nor is she dark and distant coy and cold--
But all in all to all who seek her shrine
In utter truth like to that king of old
Who wooed and won--yet by no right divine. 

Anticipation is the oil that feeds
The flame of life. It is the Siren fair
That sings at twilight in the hollow reeds
And drowns the moaning discord of despair.
Nay now in darkest night it comes to me--
It dulls the edge of every present care:
Blots from the tablets of the memory
What hath been ill or is inscribing there
In golden letters that which yet may be
Of earth's good things my individual share.
And should the days be drearier in age
And disappointment part of mine estate
With fortune I shall not a warfare wage
But sing my song as now--as now anticipate.
Sonnets are full of love and this my tome
Has many sonnets: so here now shall be
One sonnet more a love sonnet from me
To her whose heart is my heart's quiet home
To my first Love my Mother on whose knee
I learnt love-lore that is not troublesome
Whose service is my special dignity
And she my loadstar while I go and come
And so because you love me and because
I love you Mother I have woven a wreath
Of rhymes wherewith to crown your honored name:
In you not fourscore years can dim the flame
Of love whose blessed glow transcends the laws
Of time and change and mortal life and death. 

Remember me when I am gone away
Gone far away into the silent land
When you can no more hold me by the hand
Nor I half turn to go yet turning stay.
Remember me when no more day by day
You tell me of our future that you plann'd:
Only remember me
you understand
It will be late to counsel then or pray.
Yet if you should forget me for a while
And afterwards remember do not grieve:
For if the darkness and corruption leave
A vestige of the thoughts that once I had
Better by far you should forget and smile
Than that you should remember and be sad. M

Once by the dusk light of an ancient hall
I saw a horologe. Its minutes fell
Upon the roused ear with a drowsy knell
That he who passed attended to the call.
I looked: and lo! five antics over all.
One moved and four were motionless. The one
Was scythed and bald-head Time
and he mowed on
Sweep after sweep--and each a minute's fall.
The four were kings. Sceptres they bore and globes
And ermined crowns. Before that old man dim
They stood but not in joy. At sight of Time
They had stiffened into statues in their robes
Fear-petrified. Let no man envy him
Who smiles at that grave homily sublime!

Go take thine angle and with practised line
Light as the gossamer the current sweep
And if thou failest in teh calm still deep
In the rough eddy may the prize be thine.
Say thou'rt unlucky where the sunbeams shine
Beneath teh shadow where the waters creep
Perchance the monarch of the brook shall leap--
For fate is ever better than design.
Still persevere
the giddiest breeze that blows
For thee may blow with fame and fortune rife
Be prosperous--and what reck if it arose
Out of some pebble with the stream at strife
Or that the light wind dallied with the boughs?
Thou art successful
--such is human life.

No moon now blushes on the enamoured sight
No genial sun now warms the torpid lay
Since February sternly checked his ray
When Lucy's eyes first beamed their azure light.
What though no vernal flowers my hand invite
To crop their fragrance for your natal day
Lucy for you the snowdrop and the bay
Shall blend the unfading green and modest white.
Though on your natal day with aspect bleak
Stern winter frown in icy garments dressed
Still may the rosy summer robe your cheek
And the green spring still bud within your breast:
Till the world fading on your closing eyes
You find a golden autumn in the skies.

Pray but one prayer for me 'twixt thy closed lips
Think but one thought of me up in the stars.
The summer night waneth the morning light slips
Faint and grey 'twixt the leaves of the aspen betwixt the cloud-bars
That are patiently waiting there for the dawn:
Patient and colourless though Heaven's gold
Waits to float through them along with the sun.
Far out in the meadows above the young corn
The heavy elms wait and restless and cold
The uneasy wind rises
the roses are dun
Through the long twilight they pray for the dawn
Round the lone house in the midst of the corn
Speak but one word to me over the corn
Over the tender bow'd locks of the corn.

She wavered stopped and turned methought her eyes
The deep grey windows of her heart were wet
Methought they softened with a new regret
To note in mine unspoken miseries
And as a prayer from out my heart did rise
And struggled on my lips in shame's strong net
She stayed me and cried "Brother!" our lips met
Her dear hands drew me into Paradise.
Sweet seemed that kiss till thence her feet were gone
Sweet seemed the word she spake while it might be
As wordless music--But truth fell on me
And kiss and word I knew and left alone
Face to face seemed I to a wall of stone
While at my back there beat a boundless sea. 

The doomed ship drives on helpless through the sea
All that the mariners may do is done
And death is left for men to gaze upon
While side by side two friends sit silently
Friends once foes once and now by death made free
Of Love and Hate of all things lost or won
Yet still the wonder of that strife bygone
Clouds all the hope or horror that may be.
Thus Sorrow are we sitting side by side
Amid this welter of the grey despair
Nor have we images of foul or fair
To vex save of thy kissed face of a bride
Thy scornful face of tears when I was tried
And failed neath pain I was not made to bear.

When the great sun sets the glad East aflame
The lingering stars are swiftly put to flight
For Day triumphant overthrows the night
And mocks the lights that twinkled till he came.
The waning moon retires in sudden shame
And all the air from roseate height to height
Quivers with wings of birds that take the light
To jubilant music of one tender name.
So Thou hast risen--Thou who art my day
And every lesser light has ceased to shine.
Pale stars confronted by this dawn of thine
Like night and gloom and grief have passed away
And yet my bliss I fear to call it mine
Lest fresh foes lurk with unforeseen dismay. 

No depth dear Love for thee is too profound
There is no farthest height thou mayst not dare
Nor shall thy wings fail in the upper air:
In funeral robe and wreath my past lies bound
No old-time voice assails me with its sound
When thine I hear
no former joy seems fair
And now one only thing could bring despair
One grief like compassing seas my life surround
One only terror in my way be met
One great eclipse change my glad day to night
One phantom only turn from red to white
The lips whereon thy lips have once been set:
Thou knowest well dear Love what that must be--
The dread of some dark day unshared by thee.

Where Thou art not no day holds light for me
The brightest noontide turns to midnight deep
There no bird sings but awesome shadows creep--
Persistent ghosts that hold my memory
And walk where Joy and Hope once walked with thee
And in thy place their lonesome vigil keep--
Sad shades that haunt the inmost ways of sleep
No kindly morning ever bids them flee.
Those tireless footsteps will they never cease?
Like crownless queens they tread their ancient ways--
Pale phantoms of old dreams and vanished days--
And mock my poor endeavors after peace.
Too long this Arctic night too keen its cold
Come back strong sun and warm me as of old!

You thought O Love you loved me then I know
For that I bless you now when Love is cold
Remembering how warm the tale you told
While winds of autumn fitfully did blow
And by the sea's perpetual ebb and flow
We wandered on together to behold
Noon's radiant splendor or the sunset's gold
Or beauty of still nights where moons hung low.
Your voice grew tender when you called my name
I heard that voice to-day--was it the same?--
The old-time music trembles in it yet.
Your touch thrilled through me like a sudden flame
And then Love's sweet and subtle madness came
And glad lips clung that now to kiss forget. 

You surely must remember though to-day
There is no spell to charm you in the past.
So dear the dream was that it could not last:
Too soon our pleasant skies were changed to gray
The sun turned from our barren land away
And all the leaves swept by us on the blast
And all our hopes to that wild wind were cast--
For dead Love's soul there is no place to pray.
But still the old time lingers in our thought
In our regretful dreams the old suns rise
And from their shining memory hath caught
Some lingering glory of that glad surprise
When Love rose on us like the sun and brought
Our hearts their morning under last year's skies. 

Time was you heard the music of a sigh
And Love awoke
and with it Song was born--
Song glad as young birds carol in the morn
And tender as the blue and brooding sky
When all the earth feels Spring's warm witchery
And with fresh flowers her bosom doth adorn
And lovers love and cannot love forlorn
Since Love is of the gods and may not die.
In after years may come some wildering light--
Some sweet delusion followed for a space--
Such fitful fire-flies flash athwart the night
But fade before the shining of that face
Which shines upon you still in Death's despite
Whose steadfast beauty lights till death your days.

I do forgive you for the pain I bear
Though bitter pain is mingled with my bliss
For still I think while thrilling to your kiss
"He found that other woman much more fair."
I read your words and see immortal there
Another love--how warm it was to this!
And know that from my face you still must miss
The beauty that another used to wear.
Yet I forgive you Dear and bow my head
To Destiny my master and your own--
He sets the way wherein my feet must tread
And if he give me nothing quite mine own--
I know some day my heart so sore bested
Will rest most quietly and turn to stone.

The time will come full soon! I shall be gone
And you sit silent in the silent place
With the sad autumn sunlight on your face.
Remembering the loves that were your own
Haunted perchance by some familiar tone
You will be weary then for the dead days
And mindful of their sweet and bitter ways
Though passion into memory shall have grown.
Then will I with your other ghosts draw nigh
And whisper as I pass some former word--
Some old endearment known in days gone by
Some tenderness that once your pulses stirred:--
Which was it spoke to you the wind or I?
I think you musing scarcely will have heard.

Fair was the flower which proffers now its fruit
The bud began to swell 'neath Spring's soft dew
And tenderly the winds of summer blew
To foster it
and great strong suns were mute
As through its veins warm life began to shoot
And it put on each day some beauty new.
And all the fairer as I think it grew
Because the streams were tears about its root.
But now our fruit hangs well within our reach
And this indeed is time for gathering.
It hath the bloom of summer-tinted peach
Each charm it hath that any man could sing
Yet we who taste it whisper each to each
"Not sweet but very bitter is this thing!" 

Chide not because I doubt who would believe!
Has not my life been like that April day
Whose dawn awoke us with such proud display
Of mocking glory kindled to deceive
While in the distance low winds seemed to grieve--
Winds sad with prophecy--then skies grew gray
And all the morning splendor passed away
And dark with rain came on the gusty eve?
That was my birthday symbol of my birth--
Capricious April's heir the sport of Fate
Doomed to be better friends with Grief than Mirth
To know no love that did not come too late--
My only hope sore spent with life's long pain
In some glad morning to be born again. 

Give me the potent draught that Helen poured
To lull Telemachus! Make me forget
All present peril all old sins and let
Me dream in peace. Long threat'ning Fate's sharp sword
Before my eyes has hung--about me roared
The battle's clamor. Sore I am beset--
New fears and ancient pains together met
Assail me who for peace have long implored:
Give me at last to drink and let them flee
The baffled ghosts that watch me sullenly
To those waste fields that waiting shadows keep
And down some waveless tide in quiet deep
As set of day upon a quiet sea
Oh let me drift and dream and fall on sleep! 

If she unclosed her lips and made her moan
She would not be so weary with her woe--
A burden shared is lightened: even so
The weight is heavier that we bear alone
And anguish pent within turns hearts to stone.
The fellowship of sorrow to forego--
To suffer and be silent--is to know
The blackest blossom from the black root grown.
And yet great joys and greatest woes are dumb:
Small is the sum that reckoning can compute--
The shallows babble but the depths are mute--
The great mid-sea our measure may not plumb:
King Love King Pain King Death in silence come
And meeting them we silently salute. 

O wanderer in unknown lands what cheer?
How dost thou fare on thy mysterious way?
What strange light breaks upon thy distant day
Yet leaves me lonely in the darkness here?
Oh bide no longer in that far-off sphere:
Though all Heaven's cohorts should thy footsteps stay
Break through their splendid militant array
And answer to my call O dead and dear!
I shall not fear thee howsoe'er thou come
Thy coldness will not chill though Death is cold
A touch and I shall know thee--or a breath
Speak the old well-known language or be dumb
Only come back! Be near me as of old
So thou and I shall triumph over Death!

O thou long-silent solitary house
Where Love once came and went with joyous cries
Or lingered long sighing as Summer sighs
When Autumn's breath begins her fear to rouse
With fierce caress that shall make bare her boughs
Her tender boughs and all her beauty's prize
Deliver faded to the winds that rise
And rend her crown from her dishonored brows!--
O solitary house! thine open door
Again shall welcome sweet Love's wingd tread
His eyes shall light thee as they lit of yore
In days when Love and Joy were newly wed
He shall return with myrtle round his head
And fill thy halls with music as before. 

I would not have thee warm when I am cold
But both together--'neath some sylvan mound
Amid the pleasant secrets under ground
Where green things flourish in the embracing mould
And jealous seeds the souls of blossoms hold--
In some sweet fellowship of silence bound
Deeper than life more exquisite than sound
Rest tranquilly while Love's new tales are told.
We will not grudge the waking world its bliss
Its joy of speech its gladness of surprise
When lovers clasp each others hands and kiss
And earth puts on new glory to their eyes:
We lying there with Death's deep knowledge wise
Shall know that we have found Life's best in this. 

Far out at sea I hear the wind complain--
With the old plaint that vexed my childish ear
And seemed the cry of spirits drawing near
To sob their incommunicable pain.
Whence did they come and whither go again?
My very heart stood still with sudden fear
When the forlorn approach I used to hear
Of all the shuddering melancholy train.
And lo in this night's vigil far at sea
The same long cry!--Are they unpardoned yet?
Does the old pain still goad them till they come
Unsheltered souls to sob once more to me
Of some dead wrong they never can forget
Till there is no more sea and winds are dumb?

She bends her beauteous head to taste thy draught
O thou stern Angel of the Darker Cup!
With thee to-night in the dim shades to sup
Where all they be who from that cup have quaffed.
She had been clad with loveliness and laughed
At Life's strong enemies who lie in wait
Had kept with golden youth her queenly state
All unafraid of Sorrow's threat'ning shaft.
Then human Grief found out her human heart
And she was fain to go where pain is dumb
So Thou wert welcome Angel dread to see
And she fares onward with thee willingly
To dwell where no man loves no lovers part--
Thus Grief that is makes welcome Death to come.

Take thou these words thine elder brother writ--
Thou to whom Song is as thy native speech!
Across the swift-flown centuries thou canst reach
To him thy kinsman reverent hands and sit--
While shadows of the Past about ye flit--
With him "in sessions of sweet silent thought"
And share with him those halcyon days that brought
Music's sweet charm and sparkle keen of wit.
So shalt thou learn the secret of his song--
Those minor chords
since Life is as the leaf
And gladdest love and brightest day are brief
Those clear bold notes that told his soul was strong
Brave to endure and swift to smite the wrong
Until Death healed thine elder brother's grief. 

How shall we know it is the last good-by?
The skies will not be darkened in that hour
No sudden blight will fall on leaf or flower
No single bird will hush its careless cry
And you will hold my hands and smile or sigh
Just as before. Perchance the sudden tears
In your dear eyes will answer to my fears
But there will come no voice of prophecy --
No voice to whisper "Now and not again
Space for last words last kisses and last prayer
For all the wild unmitigated pain
Of those who parting clasp hands with despair"
"Who knows?" we say but doubt and fear remain.
Would any choose to part thus unaware? 

I heard one cry out strongly "Love is dead!"
And then we went and looked upon his face
Turned into marble by Death's final grace:
His silent lips that once so vainly pled
Smile now as men smile being newly wed
Since some strange joy Life's sorrows did efface
When Death's arms clasped him in supreme embrace
All his long pain of living comforted.
And you would wake him? Dare you him recall
From Death's enamouring to Life's stern pain
Make him again the old grief's hopeless thrall
Bind him once more with the old clanking chain
And goad him on his weary way again?--
Nay! let him rest with Death the lord of all. 

So Love is dead that has been quick so long!
Close then his eyes and bear him to his rest
With eglantine and myrtle on his breast
And leave him there their pleasant scents among
And chant a sweet and melancholy song
About the charms whereof he was possessed
And how of all things he was loveliest
And to compare with aught were him to wrong.
Leave him beneath the still and solemn stars
That gather and look down from their far place
With their long calm our brief woes to deride
Until the Sun the Morning's gate unbars
And mocks in turn our sorrows with his face
And yet had Love been Love he had not died. 

Wilt thou forget me in that other sphere--
Thou who hast shared my life so long in this--
And straight grown dizzy with that greater bliss
Fronting heaven's splendor strong and full and clear
No longer hold the old embraces dear
When some sweet seraph crowns thee with her kiss?
Nay surely from that rapture thou wouldst miss
Some slight small thing that thou hast cared for here.
I do not dream that from those ultimate heights
Thou wilt come back to seek me where I bide
But if I follow patient of thy slights
And if I stand there waiting by thy side
Surely thy heart with some old thrill will stir
And turn thy face toward me even from her.

How long wilt thou be silent lying there?
I grieved thee once and now my heart makes moan
Cries and thou wilt not answer turned to stone
And pitiless as stone to my despair:
My tears fall on thee and thou dost not care:
Oh! art thou cruel now who wast so kind
Or only to my sorrow deaf and blind--
Gone on beyond the hearing of my prayer?
Shall it not be that in thy brighter life
I find thee move thee to some pitying thrill
And win thee by my pleading to forgive?
Thou couldst forget past folly and past strife
Seeing in that new sphere I love thee still
And thou--didst thou not love thou wouldst not live. 

When I am dead with mockery of praise
Thou shalt not vex the stillness of my sleep:
Leave me to long tranquillity and deep
Who through such weary nights and lonesome days
Such hopeless stretch of uncompanioned ways
Have come at length my quiet rest to keep
Where nettles thrive and careless brambles creep
And things that love the dark their dull brood raise.
After my restless years I would have rest--
Long rest after so many restless years--
Unmocked by hope set free from haunting fears
Since some old pain might waken at thy tread
Do thou for once in this my heart's behest
Come thou not nigh when I am lying dead. 

A rose to smell a moment then to leave
Chance strain of song you smile at as you pass
Bubble that breaks before you lip the glass
Chain frail as the frail thread that spiders weave
Oh do not think that I myself deceive!
Thus and not otherwise to you am I--
A moment's pleasure as you pass me by
Powerless at best to make you joy or grieve.
And you to me my sun-god and my sun
Who warmed my heart to life with careless ray!
Forever will that burning memory stay
And warm me in the grave when life is done:--
What farther grace has any woman won?
Since your chance gift you cannot take away.

Poor child of sorrow! who didst boldly spring
Like sapient Pallas from thy parent's brain
All armed in mail of proof! and thou wouldst fain
Leap further yet and on exulting wing
Rise to the summit of the printer's press!
But cruel hand hath nipped thy buds amain
Hath fixed on thee the darkling inky stain
Hath soiled thy splendour and defiled thy dress!
Where are thy "full-orbed moon" and "sky serene"?
And where thy "waving foam" and "foaming wave"?
All all are blotted by the murderous pen
And lie unhonoured in their papery grave!
Weep gentle sonnets! Sonneteers deplore!
And vow--and keep your vow--you'll write no more!

Mary rose up as one in sleep might rise
And went to meet her brother's Friend: and they
Who tarried with her said: "she goes to pray
And weep where her dead brother's body lies."
So with their wringing of hands and with sighs
They stood before Him in the public way.
"Had'st Thou been with him Lord upon that day
He had not died" she said drooping her eyes.
Mary and Martha with bowed faces kept
Holding His garments one on each side.--"Where
Have ye laid him?" He asked. "Lord come and see."--
The sound of grieving voices heavily
And universally was round Him there
A sound that smote His spirit. Jesus wept.

In the cold change which time hath wrought on love
(The snowy winter of his summer prime)
Should a chance sigh or sudden tear-drop move
Thy heart to memory of the olden time
Turn not to gaze on me with pitying eyes
Nor mock me with a withered hope renewed
But from the bower we both have loved arise
And leave me to my barren solitude!
What boots it that a momentary flame
Shoots from the ashes of a dying fire?
We gaze upon the hearth from whence it came
And know the exhausted embers must expire:
Therefore no pity or my heart will break
Be cold be careless--for thy past love's sake! 

Silent companions of the lonely hour
Friends who can never alter or forsake
Who for inconstant roving have no power
And all neglect perforce must calmly take--
Let me return to you
this turmoil ending
Which worldly cares have in my spirit wrought
And o'er your old familiar pages bending
Refresh my mind with many a tranquil thought:
Till haply meeting there from time to time
Fancies the audible echo of my own
'Twill be like hearing in a foreign clime
My native language spoke in friendly tone
And with a sort of welcome I shall dwell
On these my unripe musings told so well.

Dear love I sometimes think how it would be
If thou shouldst love me if on such a day
O day of wonder! thou shouldst come and say
I love thee or but let me guess thy plea--
If once thine eyes should brighten suddenly
If once thy step should hasten or delay
Because of me if once thy hand should stay
A needless instant in my own! Ah me!
From such imaginings I wake and start
And dull and worthless life's endeavours seem
Before the tender beauty of my dream--
And then I whisper my impatient heart
"Be still be comforted O heart of mine
Thou art not all bereft the dream is thine."

For me my friend no grave-side vigil keep
With tears that memory and remorse might fill
Give me your tenderest laughter earth-bound still
And when I die you shall not want to weep.
No epitaph for me with virtues deep
Punctured in marble pitiless and chill:
But when play time is over if you will
The songs that soothe beloved babes to sleep.
No lenten lilies on my breast and brow
Be laid when I am silent
roses red
And golden roses bring me here instead
That if you love or bear me I may know
I may not know nor care when I am dead:
Give me your songs and flowers and laughter now.

Turn with me from the city's clamorous street
Where throng and push passions and lusts and hate
And enter through this age-browned ivied gate
For many summers' birds a sure retreat
The place of perfect peace. And here most meet
For meditation where no idle prate
Of the world's ways may come rest thee and wait.
'Tis very quiet. Thus doth still Heaven entreat.
With rev'rent feet his face so worn so fair
Walks one who bears the cross who waits the crown.
Tumult is past. In those calm eyes I see
The image of the Master Christ alone
And from those patient lips I hear one prayer:
"Dear Lord dear Lord that I may be like thee! "

If I were loved as I desire to be
What is there in the great sphere of the earth
And range of evil between death and birth
That I should fear--if I were loved by thee?
All the inner all the outer world of pain
Clear Love would pierce and cleave if thou wert mine
As I have heard that somewhere in the main
Fresh-water springs come up through bitter brine.
'T were joy not fear claspt hand-in-hand with thee
To wait for death--mute--careless of all ills
Apart upon a mountain tho' the surge
Of some new deluge from a thousand hills
Flung leagues of roaring foam into the gorge
Below us as far on as eye could see.

Old poets foster'd under friendlier skies
Old Virgil who would write ten lines they say
At dawn and lavish all the golden day
To make them wealthier in the readers' eyes
And you old popular Horace you the wise
Adviser of the nine-years-ponder'd lay
And you that wear a wreath of sweeter bay
Catullus whose dead songster never dies
If glancing downward on the kindly sphere
That once had roll'd you round and round the sun
You see your Art still shrined in human shelves
You should be jubilant that you flourish'd here
Before the Love of Letters overdone
Had swamped the sacred poets with themselves.

He thought to quell the stubborn hearts of oak
Madman! to chain with chains and bind with bands
That island queen who sways the floods and lands
From Ind to Ind but in fair daylight woke
When from her wooden walls--lit by sure hands--
With thunders and with lightnings and with smoke--
Peal after peal the British battle broke
Lulling the brine against the Coptic sands.
We taught him lkowlier moods when Elsinore
Heard the war moan along the distant sea
Rocking with shattered spars with sudden fires
Flamed over: at Trafalgar yet once more
We taught him: late he learned humility
Perforce like those whom Gideon schooled with briars. 

What time the mighty moon was gathering light
Love paced the thymy plots of Paradise
And all about him rolled his lustrous eyes
When turning round a cassia full in view
Death walking all alone beneath a yew
And talking to himself first met his sight:
"You must begone" said death "these walks are mine."
Love wept and spread his sheeny vans for flight
Yet ere he parted said: "This hour is thine:
Thou art the shadow of life and as the tree
Stands in the sun and shadows all beneath
So in the light of great eternity
Life eminent creates the shade of death
The shadow passeth when the tree shall fall
But I shall reign for ever over all." 

"Then what is life?" I cried. From his rent deeps
Of soul the poet cast that burning word
And it should seem as though his prayer was heard
For he died soon
and now his rest he keeps
Somewhere with the great spirit who never sleeps!
He had left us to murmur on awhile
And question still most fruitlessly this pile
Of natural shows What life is? Why man weeps?
Why sins?--and whither when the awful veil
Floats on to him he sinks from earthly sight?
Some are who never grow a whit more pale
For thinking on the general mystery
Ground of all being
yet may I rather be
Of those who know and feel that it is night.

My heart was heavy for its trust had been
Abused its kindness answered with foul wrong
So turning gloomily from my fellow-men
One summer Sabbath day I strolled among
The green mounds of the village burial-place
Where pondering how all human love and hate
Find one sad level
and how soon or late
Wronged and wrongdoer each with meekened face
And cold hands folded over a still heart
Pass the green threshold of our common grave
Whither all footsteps tend whence none depart
Awed for myself and pitying my race
Our common sorrow like a mighty wave
Swept all my pride away and trembling I forgave!

Outbound your bark awaits you. Were I one
Whose prayer availeth much my wish should be
Your favoring trad-wind and consenting sea.
By sail or steed was never love outrun
And here or there love follows her in whom
All graces and sweet charities unite
The old Greek beauty set in holier light
And her for whom New England's byways bloom
Who walks among us welcome as the Spring
Calling up blossoms where her light feet stray.
God keep you both make beautiful your way
Comfort console and bless
and safely bring
Ere yet I make upon a vaster sea
The unreturning voyage my friends to me.

Severed from sweet Content my life's sole light
Banished by overweening wit from my desire:
This poor acceptance only I require
That though my fault have forced me from thy sight
Yet that thou wouldst (my sorrows to requite)
Review these Sonnets pictures of thy praise
Wherein each woe thy wondrous worth doth raise
Though first thy worth bereft me of delight.
See them forsaken: for I them forsooke
Forsaken first of thee next of my sense
And when thou deignst on their black tears to look
Shed not one tear my tears to recompense:
But joy in this (though Fates 'gainst me repine)
My verse still lives to witness thee divine. 

Thine eye the glass where I behold my heart
Mine eye the window through the which thine eye
May see my heart and there thyself espy
In bloody colours how thou painted art.
Thine eye the pile is of a murdering dart
Mine eye the sight thou tak'st thy level by
To hit my heart and never shoot'st awry
Mine eye thus helps thine eye to work my smart.
Thyne eye a fire is both in heat and light
Mine eye of tears a river doth become.
O that the water of mine eye had might
To quench the flames that from thyne eye do come
Or that the fire that's kindled by thine eye
The flowing streams of mine eye doth make dry.

Delight in your bright eyes my death did breed
As light and glittering weapons babes allure
To play with fire and sword and so procure
Them to be burnt and hurt ere they take heed.
Thy beauty so hath made me burn and bleed
Yet shall my ashes and my blood assure
Thy beauty's fame forever to endure
For thy fame's life from my death doth proceed.
Because my heart to ashes burnd giveth
Life to thy fame thou right a Phoenix art
And like a Pelican thy beauty liveth
By sucking blood out of my breast and heart.
Loe why with wonder we may thee compare
Unto the Pelican and Phoenix rare. 

Blame not my heart for flying up so high
Since thou art cause that it this flight begun
For earthly vapors drawn up by the sun
Comets become and night-suns in the sky.
My humble heart so with thy heavenly eye
Drawn up aloft all low desires doth shun
Raise thou me up as thou my heart hast done
So during night in heaven remain may I.
Blame not I say again my high desire
Since of us both the cause thereof depends.
In thee doth shine in me doth burn a fire.
Fire draws up others and itself ascends.
Thine eye a fire and so draws up my love
My love a fire and so ascends above. 

Not that thy hand is soft is sweet is white
Thy lips sweet roses breast sweet lily is
That love esteems these three the chiefest bliss
Which nature ever made for lips' delight.
But when these three to show their heavenly might
Such wonders do devotion then for this
Commandeth us with humble zeal to kiss
Such things as work miracles in our sight.
A lute of senseless wood by nature dumb
Touched by thy hand doth speak divinely well
And from thy lips and breast sweet tunes do come
To my daed heart the which new life do give
Of greater wonders heard we never tell
Than for the dumb to speak the dead to live. 

My Lady's presence makes the roses red
Because to see her lips they blush for shame.
The lilies' leaves for envy pale became
And her white hands in them this envy bred.
The marigold abroad the leaves did spread
Because the sun's and her power is the same
The violet of purple colour came
Dyed with the blood she made my heart to shed.
In brief all flowers from her their virtue take
From her sweet breath their sweet smells do proceed
The living heat which her eyebeams do make
Warmeth the ground and quickneth the seed.
The rain wherewith she watereth these flowers
Falls from mine eyes which she dissolves in showers.

If nature for her works proud ever were
It was for this that she created you.
Your sacred head which wisdom doth indue
Is only fit a diadem to wear.
Your lily hand which fairer doth appear
Than ever eye beheld in shape and hue
Unto no other use by right is due
Except it be a scepter for to bear.
Your cherry lips by nature framd be
Hearts to comand: your eye is only fit
With his wise looks kingdoms to oversee.
O happy land whose sovereign thou hadst been:
But God on earth full bliss will not permit
And this is only cause your are no Queen. 

Mine eye with all the deadly sins is fraught.
First proud since it presumed to look so high
A watchman being made stood gazing by
And idle took no heed till I was caught
And envious bears envy that my thought
Should in his absence be to her so nigh
To kill my heart mine eye let in her eye
And so consent gave to a murder wrought
And covetous it never would remove
From her fair hair gold so doth please his sight
Unchaste a bawd between my heart and love
A glutton eye with tears drunk every night:
These sins procurd have a goddess' ire
Wherefore my heart is damned in love's sweet fire.

Dear to my soul then leave me not forsaken!
Fly not my heart within thy bosom sleepeth.
Even from myself and sense I have betaken
Me unto thee for whom my spirit weepeth
And on the shore of that salt teary sea
Couched in a bed of unseen seeming pleasure
Where in imaginary thoughts thy fair self lay
But being waked robbed of my life's best treasure
I call the heavens air earth and seas to hear
My love my truth and black disdained estate
Beating the rocks with bellowings of despair
Which still with plaints my words reverberate
Sighing Alas what shall become of me?
Whilst Echo cries What shall become of me? 

Whilst Echo cries What shall become of me?
And desolate my desolations pity
Thou in thy beauty's carrack sit'st to see
My tragic downfall and my funeral ditty.
No timbrel but my heart thou play'st upon
Whose strings are stretched unto the highest key
The diapason love
love is the unison
In love my life and labors waste away.
Only regardless to the world thou leav'st me
Whilst slain hopes turning from the feast of sorrow
Unto despair their king which ne'er deceives me
Captives my heart whose black night hates the morrow
And he in ruth of my distressed cry
Plants me a weeping star within my eye. 

Fair grace of graces muse of muses all
Thou paradise thou only heaven I know
What influence hath bred my hateful woe
That I from thee and them am forced to fall?
Thou fall'n from me from thee I never shall
Although my fortunes thou hast brought so low
Yet shall my faith and service with thee go
For live I do on heaven and thee to call.
Banished all grace no graces with me dwell
Compelled to muse my muses from me fly
Excluded heaven what can remain but hell?
Exiled from paradise in hate I lie
Cursing my stars
albeit I find it true
I lost all these when I lost love and you.

To live in hell and heaven to behold
To welcome life and die a living death
To sweat with heat and yet be freezing cold
To grasp at stars and lie the earth beneath
To tread a maze that never shall have end
To burn in sighs and starve in daily tears
To climb a hill and never to descend
Giants to kill and quake at childish fears
To pine for food and watch th' Hesperian tree
To thirst for drink and nectar still to draw
To live accursed whom men hold blest to be
And weep those wrongs which never creature saw:
If this be love if love in these be founded
My heart is love for these in it are grounded. 

Great God: within whose simple essence we
Nothing but that which is thyself can find:
When on thyself thou did'st reflect thy mind
Thy thought was God which took the form of thee:
And when this God thus born thou lov'st & he
Loved thee again with passion of like kind
(As lovers' sighs which meet become one wind)
Both breathed one spright of equal deity.
Eternal father whence these two do come
And wil'st the tItle of my father have
As heavenly knowledge in my mind engrave
That it thy son's true Image may become:
And sence my heart with sighs of holy Love
That it the temple of the Spright may prove. 

Great Prince of heaven begotten of that king
Who rules the kingdom that himself did make:
And of that virgin Queen man's shape did take
Which from King David's royal stock did spring:
No marvel though thy birth made Angels sing:
And Angels' ditties shepherd's pipes awake:
And kings like shepherds humbled for thy sake
Kneel at thy feet & gifts of homage bring:
For heaven & earth the high & low estate
As partners of thy birth make equal claim.
Angels because in heaven God thee begat
Shepherds & kings because thy mother came
From princely race & yet by poverty
Made glory shine in her humility. 

Eternal spright: which art in heaven the Love
With which God and his son each other kiss:
And who to show who God's beloved is
The shape and wings took'st of a loving dove:
When Christ ascending sent thee from above
In fiery tongues thou cam'st down unto his
That skill in uttering heavenly mysteries
By heat of zeal both faith & love might move:
True God of Love: from whom all true love springs
Bestow upon my Love thy wings & fire
My soul a spirit is and with thy wings
May like an Angel fly from earth's desire:
And with thy fire a hart inflamed may bear
And in thy sight a Seraphim appear. 

When thee (O holy sacrificd Lamb)
In severed signs I white & liquid see:
As on thy body slain I think on thee
Which pale by shedding of thy blood became.
And when again I do behold the same
Veiled in white to be received of me:
Thou seemest in thy syndon wrapped to be
Like to a corpse whose monument I am.
Buried in me unto my soul appear
Prisoned in earth & banished from thy sight
Like our forefathers who in Limbo were.
Clear thou my thoughts as thou did'st give the light:
And as thou others freed from purging fire
Quench in my heart the flames of bad desire. 

In that (O Queen of queens) thy birth was free
From guilt which others doth of grace bereave
When in their mothers' womb they life receive:
God as his sole-borne daughter lovd thee.
To match thee like thy birth's nobility
He thee his spirit for thy spouse did leave:
Of whom thou did'st his only son conceive
And so was linked to all the trinity.
Cease then O Queens who earthly crowns do wear
To glory in the pomp of worldly things:
If men such high respect unto you bear
Which daughters wives & mothers are of kings
What honour should unto that Queen be done
Who had your God for father spouse & son. 

When as the prince of Angels puffed with pride
Stirred his seditious spirits to rebel:
God chose for chief his Champion Michael:
And gave him charge the host of heaven to guide.
And when the Angels of the Rebels' side
Vanquished in battle from their glory fell
The pride of heaven became the Drake of hell
And in the dungeon of despair was tied.
This Dragon since let loose God's Church assailed
And she by help of Michael's sword prevailed.
Who ever tried adventures like this knight?
Which general of heaven hell overthrew
For such a Lady as God's spouse did fight:
And such a monster as the Devil subdue. 

As Anne long barren Mother did become
of him who last was Judge in Israel:
Thou last of prophets borne like Samuel
Did'st from a womb past hope of issue come.
His mother silent spake: thy father dumb
Recovering speech God's wonder did foretell:
He after death a prophet was in hell:
And thou unborn within thy mother's womb:
He did annoint the king whom God did take
From charge of sheep to rule his chosen land:
But that high king who heaven & earth did make
Received a holier liquor from thy hand
When God his flock in human shape did feed
As Israel's king kept his in shepherd's weed. 

He that for fear his master did deny
And at a maiden's voice amazd stood
The mightiest Monarch of the earth withstood:
And on his master's Cross rejoyced to die.
He whose blind zeal did rage with Cruelty:
And helped to shed the first of Martyr's blood
By light from heaven his blindness understood
And with the chief Apostle slain doth lie.
O three times happy two: O golden pair
Who with your blood did lay the Church's ground
Within the fatal town which twins did found.
And settled there the Hebrew fishers chair
Where first the Latin shepherd raised his throne
And since the world & Church were ruled by one. 

For few nights' solace in delicious bed
Where heat of lust did kindle flames of hell:
Thou nak'd on naked rock in desert cell
Lay thirty years and tears of grief did shed.
But for that time thy heart there sorrowed
Thou now in heaven eternally dost dwell
And for each tear which from thine eyes then fell
A sea of pleasure now is rendered.
If short delights entice my heart to stray
Let me by thy long penance learn to know
How dear I should for trifling pleasures pay:
And if I virtue's rough beginning shun
Let thy eternal joys unto me show
What high Reward by little pain is won. 

Because thou wast the daughter of a king
Whose beauty did all nature's works exceed
And wisdom wonder to the world did breed
A Muse might raise itself on Cupid's wing.
But since these graces which from Nature spring
Were graced by those which from grace did proceed
And glory hath deserved
my muse doth need
An Angel's feathers when thy praise I sing.
For all in thee became Angelical:
An Angel's face had Angel's purity:
And thou an Angel's tongue did'st speak withal.
Loe why thy soul set free by Martyrdom
Was crowned by God in Angels' company
And Angels' hands thy body did entomb. 

Fair Amazon of heaven: who took'st in hand
St. Michael & St. George to imitate:
And for a tyrant's Love transformed to hate
Wast for thy lily faith retained in band:
Alone on foot & with thy naked hand
Thou did'st like Michael & his host: & that
For which on horse armed George we celebrate:
Whilst thou like them a dragon did'st withstand.
Behold my soul shut in my body's jail
The which the Drake of hell gapes to devour
Teach me (o virgin) how thou did'st prevail:
Virginity thou saiest was all thy Aid:
Give me then purity instead of power
And let my soul made chaste pass for a Maid. 

Sovereign of Queens: If vain Ambition move
My heart to seek an earthly prince's grace:
Show me thy son in his imperial place
Whose servants reign our kings & queens above.
And if alluring passions I do prove
By pleasing sighs: show me thy lovely face:
Whose beams the Angels' beauty do deface:
And even inflame the Seraphims with love.
So by Ambition I shall humble be:
When in the presence of the highest king
I serve all his that he may honour me.
And love my heart to chaste desires shall bring
When fairest Queen looks on me from her throne
And jealous bids me love but her alone. 

Why should I any love O queene but thee?
If favour past a thankful love should breed?
Thy womb did bear thy breast my saviour feed
And thou did'st never cease to succour me.
If Love do follow worth and dignity?
Thou all in thy perfections dost exceed:
If Love be led by hope of future meed?
What pleasure more than thee in heaven to see?
And earthly sight doth only please the eye
And breeds desire but doth not satisfy:
Thy sight gives us possession of all joy
And with such full delights each sense shall fill
As heart shall wish but for to see thee still
And ever seeing ever shall enjoy. 

Sweet Queen: although thy beauty raise up me
From sight of baser beauties here below:
Yet let me not rest there: but higher go
To him who took his shape from God & thee.
And if thy form in him more fair I see
What pleasure from his deity shall flow
By whose fair beams his beauty shineth so
When I shall it behold eternally.
Then shall my love of pleasure have his fill
When beauty's self in whom all pleasure is
Shall my enamored soul embrace & kiss:
And shall new loves & new delights distill
Which from my soul shall gush into my heart
And through my body flow to every part. 

Blessed Offender: who thyself hast tried
How far a sinner differs from a Saint
Join thy wet eyes with tears of my complaint
While I sigh for that grave for which thou cried.
No longer let my sinful soul abide
In fever of thy first desires faint:
But let that love which last thy heart did taint
With pangs of thy repentance pierce my side.
So shall my soul no foolish virgin be
With empty lamp: but like a Magdalen bear
For ointment box a breast with oil of grace:
And so the zeal which then shall burn in me
May make my heart like to a lamp appear
And in my spouse's palace give me place.

Such as retired from sight of men like thee
By penance seek the joys of heaven to win
In deserts make their paradise begin:
And even among wild beasts do Angels see.
In such a place my soul doth seem to be
When in my body she laments her sin:
And none but brutal passions finds therein
Except they be sent down from heaven to mee.
Yet if those graces God to me impart
Which he inspired thy blessed breast withal
I may find heaven in my retired heart:
And if thou change the object of my love
The winged affection which men Cupid call
May get his sight & like an Angel prove. 

Sweet Saint: Thou better canst declare to me
What pleasure is obtained by heavenly love
Than they which other loves did never prove:
Or which in sex are differing from thee:
For like a woman spouse my soul shall be
Whom sinful passions once to lust did move
And since betrothd to God's son above
Should be enamored with his deity.
My body is the garment of my spright
While as the daytime of my life doth last:
When death shall bring the night of my delight
My soul unclothed shall rest from labors past:
And claspd in the arms of God enjoy
By sweet conjunction everlasting joy. 

By this he knew she wept with waking eyes:
That at his hand's light quiver by her head
The strange low sobs that shook their common bed
Were called into her with a sharp surprise
And strangled mute like little gaping snakes
Dreadfully venomous to him. She lay
Stone-still and the long darkness flowed away
With muffled pulses. Then as midnight makes
Her giant heart of Memory and Tears
Drink the pale drug of silence and so beat
Sleep's heavy measure they from head to feet
WEre moveless looking through their dead black years
By vain regret scrawled over the blank wall.
Like sculptured effigies they might be seen
Upon their marriage-tomb the sword between
Each wishing for the sword that severs all. 

In our old shipwrecked days there was an hour
When in the firelight steadily aglow
Joined slackly we beheld the red chasm grow
Among the clicking coals. Our library-bower
That eve was left to us: and hushed we sat
As lovers to whom Time is whispering.
From sudden-opened doors we heard them sing:
The nodding elders mixed good wine with chat.
Well knew we that Life's greatest treasure lay
With us and of it was our talk. "Ah yes!
Love dies!" I said: I never thought it less.
She yearned to me that sentence to unsay.
Then when the fire domed blackening I found
Her cheek was salt against my kiss and swift
Up the sharp scale of sobs her breast did lift:--
Now am I haunted by that taste! that sound! 

On a starred night Prince Lucifer uprose.
Tired of his dark dominion swung the fiend
Above the rolling ball in cloud part screened
Where sinners hugged their spectre of repose.
Poor prey to his hot fit of pride were those.
And now upon his western wing he leaned
Now his huge bulk o'er Afric's sands careened
Now the black planet shadowed Arctic snows.
Soaring through wider zones that pricked his scars
With memory of the old revolt from Awe
He reached a middle height and at the stars
Which are the brain of heaven he looked and sank.
Around the ancient track marched rank on rank
The army of unalterable law.

At last we parley: we so strangely dumb
In such a close communion! It befell
About the sounding of the Matin-bell
And lo! her place was vacant and the hum
Of loneliness was round me. Then I rose
And my disordered brain did guide my foot
To that old wood where our first love-salute
Was interchanged: the source of many throes!
There did I see her not alone. I moved
Toward her and made proffer of my arm.
She took it simply with no rude alarm
And that disturbing shadow passed reproved.
I felt the pained speech coming and declared
My firm belief in her ere she could speak.
A ghastly morning came into her cheek
While with a widening soul on me she stared. 

We saw the swallows gathering in the sky
And in the osier-isle we heard them noise.
We had not to look back on summer joys
Or forward to a summer of bright dye:
But in the largeness of the evening earth
Our spirits grew as we went side by side.
The hour became her husband and my bride.
Love that had robbed us so thus blessed our dearth!
The pilgrims of the year waxed very loud
In multitudinous chatterings as the flood
Full brown came from the West and like pale blood
Expanded to the upper crimson cloud.
Love that had robbed us of immortal things
This little moment mercifully gave
Where I have seen across the twilight wave
The swan sail with her young beneath her wings.

O Love if those clear faithful eyes of thine
Were ever turned away there then should be
No heav'nly looks to take the gloom from mine
Nor any hills nor any dales for me
Nor any honeyed cups of eglantine
Nor morning spilth of dew on land or sea.
No sun should rise and leave his eastern tent
To wake the music of the rambling wave
Nor any freshness of the West be seen
To sweep away night's savours of the grave.
But when I gaze into those fadeless eyes
Methinks I am in some mysterious land
Where far-off seas take colour from the skies
And voiceless on a mountain-top I stand.

The stars come out
the fragrant shadows fall
About a dreaming garden still and sweet
I hear the unseen bats above me bleat
Among the ghostly moths their hunting call
And twinkling glow-worms all about me crawl.
Now for a chamber dim a pillow meet
For slumbers deep as death a faultless sheet
Cool white and smooth. So may I reach the hall
With poppies strewn where sleep that is so dear
With magic sponge can wipe away an hour
Or twelve and make them naught. Why not a year
Why could a man not loiter in that bower
Until a thousand painless cycles wore
And then--what if it held him evermore?

The measured lines their imageries reveal
And seek with purer thoughts the mind to fill
Subdue the passions and enthrone the will
And in the heart some worthier impulse seal.
To bless the world its needless cares disperse
The poet strives for highest realms of thought
His mind aflame with deep compassion fraught
Will write his heart's convictions in his verse.
His verse oft stirs emotion's deepest springs
From anguished souls the crushing pain decoys
In cheerless lives hope's sweetest anthem sings
And seals in hearts this life's sublimest joys.
The bard unfolds in song thought's living power
Like opening bud reveals the fragrant flower. 

The great Titanic's hosts have gone to greet
The dead uncoffined in broad ocean's deep
Around their hallowed tombs no mourners weep
Nor sorrow's requiem o'er their graves repeat.
The powers of fate man's feeble plans defeat
And rolling billows o'er the helpless sweep
And on their dark expanse their harvest reap.
The rich and poor their like destructions meet.
Time soothes the sorrow and the wound will heal
The waves will sing to them their rhythmic song
May God's own hands their bodies guard and keep
And o'er those hallowed waters place his seal.
To friends their memories only now belong
In ocean depths they rest and sweetly sleep. 

The sleepless night in awful anguish spent
Great crimson drops the holy features steep
Those left to watch in peaceful quiet sleep
The howling mob by treacherous priesthood sent
With swords and staves by faithless Judas led
With vain salute Hail Master! And that sign
A traitor's kiss--the frightened followers fled
And murderous demons seize their Lord divine.
The priestly court--false witnesses are sought
The Roman court--not guilty--yet condemned
The cruel cross--a world's redemption bought
The quaking earth with awful darkness hemmed
The Roman guard--the grave securely sealed
The opened tomb--the risen Lord revealed. 

Beneath the spreading limbs of forest bowers
Like hermit sage he seeks sequestered nook
A thoughtful youth there hidden with his book
Will gather knowledge through the silent hours.
These garnered stores his hungry mind devours
As famished herds drink from the cooling brook.
Or bees which naught could tempt to overlook
The nectared sweetness of the fragrant flowers.
The sturdy miner delves the earth for gold
For wealth the seaman sails to distant shore
The farmer toils by ripened grain fields toled
And slaving hosts bow at wealth's golden throne
The student gleans from fields by others sown
And reaps from books their more enduring store. 

The drear and lonesome season now has gone
And winter's sadness will be turned to mirth
The opening buds and smiling flowers each dawn
Will greet with joy this gladder season's birth.
The earth awakened from the winter's dearth
The robin chirps with glee o'er grassy lawn
And wilder spots have felt the sunbeam's worth
Which charm to gayer pranks the sportive fawn.
All nature smiles in springtime fashion dressed
The fertile fields resound with plowman's song
The noisy sparrow builds 'neath eaves her nest
The woodland trembles with the warbling throng.
New life is born new hope inspires the breast
For spring has come and all the world is blest. 

The French "creator" rules the realm of style
With consummate skill lures aping crowds along
With gaudy frills their pliant minds beguile
And binds in fashion's chains the hapless throng.
With bated breath they wait the stern command
Of fashion's priest
whose great creative mind
Must mold the fashions of this glorious land--
The vulgar Frenchman clothes the world's refined.
The rich and poor the humble and the great
Must wear the garb these foreign lords devise
They dare not scorn the Frenchman's fashion plate
But wear the garment though the style despise.
The world still yields to style's deforming sway
And nature's sweetest charms they fling away. 

The gilded signs whose silent voices speak
Reveal those hands which genius has endowed
To check the footsteps of the hurrying crowd
And guide unerring to the marts they seek.
Dark devious paths oft mark the crowded way
And dangerous pitfalls there the steps betide
The sign-writer's work becomes a trusted guide
Where by-baths branch to lead the feet astray.
Sublime the work through power of genius born
Though menial sphere may mark its lowly place
Its beauty will earth's highest realms adorn
And lowest depths its guiding gleams embrace.
The genius writes the sign to charm the eyes
Still that he works for gain no one denies. 

The star that marked the birthplace of our King
Shone bright above that Bethlehem manger bed
And by its gleams wise shepherds' feet were led
To pay him homage and their treasures bring.
Now to this star the world's great nations cling
Revere the power that raised him from the dead
With wreathes of love still crown that sacred head
And waft to heaven the song which angels sing.
This song of "Peace on earth good will t'ward men"
Has charmed the vistas of earth's noblest thought
Still guides the hand that wields immortal pen
And crowns him king who man's redemption bought--
Whose tireless feet o'er hill and valley's glen
From heaven to earth a priceless message brought. 

Those cruel hordes with boastful pomp and pride
To please a tyrant's greed and lust for power
Would drench in blood a land that will not cower
And bathe fair Belgium in war's crimson tide.
The rights of peaceful powers have been denied
Nor woman's prayers nor childhood's tears this hour
Could stay the hand that would their homes devour
And o'er their bleeding forms in triumph ride.
Faith's prayers ascend hope's voice to God appeals
That love might win against a tyrant's might
And heal the wounds this dreadful strife reveals
And honor Belgium's stand for peace and right.
Time will record in blood an empire's shame
While Belgium's triumph is an honored name. 

Outside and In
Judge not a man by his smooth shining pate
When from his dome time has the covering shorn
And left that space like desert plains forlorn
While oft beneath are brains which compensate.
Think not that hair great sense must indicate
That sheltering locks do all wise heads adorn
For in his skull man's power to think was born
And wisdom's charms oft hairless crowns ornate.
Skulls void of hair without and lacking brains
When sportive nature works some foolish prank
For which misfortune naught could recompense
Still without hair or with this truth remains
That human heads that reach life's highest rank
Are those adorned with brains and common sense. 

Creeds melted in the fires of modern thought
Which truth has kindled into quenchless flame
Has in its light revealed the crime and shame
Of doctrines superstition's votaries taught.
Untold the anguish wicked creeds have brought
To those who dared a different faith proclaim
Where at the stake they earned a martyr's name
And crowned a faith with honors dearly bought.
Time scarce can heal the wounds of cruel creeds
Their crimson stains outlive the flight of years
Though martyred saints shall reap immortal meads
And Christian truth and love dispel earth's fears
No power of man can hide those barbarous deeds
Nor wipe from history's page the martyr's tears.
Behold that tree in autumn's dim decay
Stripped by the frequent chill and eddying wind
Where yet some yellow lonely leaves we find
Lingering and trembling on the naked spray
Twenty perchance for millions whirled away!
Emblem--alas too just!--of human kind:
Vain man expects longevity designed
For few indeed
and their protracted day--
What is it worth that wisdom does not scorn?
The blasts of sickness care and grief appal
That laid the friends in dust whose natal morn
Rose near their own!--and solemn is the call
Yet like those weak deserted leaves forlorn
Shivering they cling to life and fear to fall. 

Praised be the poet who the sonnet's claim
Severest of the orders that belong
Distinct and separate to the Delphic song
Shall venerate nor its appropriate name
Lawless assume. Peculiar is its frame
From him derived who shunned the city throng
And warbled sweet thy rocks and streams among
Lonely Valclusa!--
and that heir of fame
Our greater Milton hath by many a lay
Formed on that arduous model fully shown
The English verse may happily display
Those strict energic measures which alone
Deserve the name of sonnet and convey
A grandeur grace and spirit all their own. 

My angel sister though thy lovely form
Perished in youth's gay morning yet is mine
This precious ringlet!--still the soft hairs shine
Still glow the nut-brown tints all bright and warm
With sunny gleam!--Alas! each kindred charm
Vanished long since
deep in the silent shrine
Withered to shapeless dust!--and of their grace
Memory alone retains the faithful trace.--
Dear lock! had thy sweet owner lived ere now
Time on her brow had faded thee!--My care
Screened from the sun and dew thy golden glow
And thus her early beauty dost thou wear
Thou all of that fair frame my love could save
From the resistless ravage of the grave!

Is thy heart weary of unfeeling men
And chilled with the world's ice? Then come with me
And I will bring thee to a pleasant glen
Lovely and lonely. There we'll sit unviewed
By scoffing eye
and let our hearts beat free
With their own mutual throb. For wild and rude
The access is and none will there intrude
To poison our free thoughts and mar our solitude!
Such scenes move not their feelings--for they hold
No fellowship with nature's loneliness
The frozen wave reflects not back the gold
And crimson flushes of the sunset hour
The rock lies cold in sunshine--not the power
Of heaven's bright orb can clothe its barrenness.

Time is a heavy legend to be told
By this slight clock shapely and full of guile
With brilliants at its throat the sun in gold
Louis' own seal above its painted smile.
Some clocks have souls
they grow into a wall
Become a part of lives they tick away
This is a toy perfect sufficient all
Unto itself--a butterfly at bay.
Hours and years? They change but do not pass!
In this light world of gold and ormolu
Time is one splendid moment under glass!
Mad little clock so gay it never knew
Blood on the hours a lifted pike--a head--
And hot throats roaring that the King is dead!

With heat and cold I feel the spiteful fiend
To work one mischief by two contraries
With lust he doth me scorch with languor freeze
But lust and languor both one Christ offend.
Let contraries with contraries contend
Let fear of blame and love of Christ arise
Hot love of Christ to melt in tears mine eyes
Cold fear of just reproach my shame to extend
That shame with heat may cool my looser thought
And tears with cold heat my heart's sluggish deep.
O happy I if that such grace were wrought!
Till then shame blush because tears cannot weep
And tears weep you because shame cannot blush
Till shame from tears and tears from shame do flush.

My friends whose kindness doth their judgments blind
Know you say they the dangers where you run
Which zeal hides from you but compassion
Tells us? You feel the blow the smart we find.
I know it well and as I call to mind
This is the bill: dearness affection
Friends fortune pleasure fame hope life undone
Want prison torment death shame--what behind?
Is then my sense transel'mented to steel
That neither this nor that nor all can feel
Nor can it bend my mind which theirs doth break?
Not so nor so
for I am not insensate
But feel a double grief that for Christ's sake
I have no more to spend nor have spent that. 

Lord I have left all and myself behind:
My state my hopes my strength and present ease
My unprovokd studies' sweet disease
And touch of nature and engrafted kind
Whose cleaving twist doth distant tempers bind
And gentle sense of kindness that doth praise
The earnest judgments others' wills to please
All and myself I leave thy love to find.
O strike my heart with lightning from above
That from one wound both fire and blood may spring
Fire to transelement my soul to love
And blood as oil to keep the fire burning
That fire may draw forth blood blood extend fire
Desire possession possession desire. 

The night the starless night of passion
From heaven began on heaven beneath to fall
When Christ did sound the onset martial
A sacred hymn upon his foes to run
That with the fiery contemplation
Of love and joy his soul and senses all
Surcharged might not dread the bitter thrall
Of pain and grief and torments all in one.
Then since my holy vows have undertook
To take the portrait of Christ's death in me
Then let my love with sonnets fill this book
With hymns to give the onset as did he
That thoughts inflamd with such heavenly muse
The coldest ice of fire may not refuse. 

Over the brook of Cedron Christ is gone
To entertain the combat with his death
Where David fled beforetime void of breath
To scape the treacheries of Absalon.
Go let us follow him in passion
Over this brook this world that walloweth
A stream of cares that drown our thoughts beneath
And wash away all resolution.
Beyond the world he must be passd clear
That in the world for Christ will troubles bear:
Leave we O leave we then this miry flood
Friends pleasures and unfaithful good.
Now we are up now down but cannot stand
We sink we reel
Jesu stretch forth thy hand.

Up to Mount Olivet my soul ascend
The mount spiritual and there supply
Thy fainting lamp with oil of charity
To make the light of faith the more extend.
Go by this tract which thither right doth tend
Which Christ did first beat forth to walk thereby
And sixteen ages of posterity
Have gone it over since from end to end.
But strike not down to any new-found balk
Which hunters have begun of late to chalk:
For whether 'twere the glow-worm faith went out
Or want of love did pine them in the way
Or else the cruel devils rob or slay
No news comes back of one of all that rout. 

Though all forsake thee Lord yet I will die
For I have chaind so my will to thine
That I have no will left my will to untwine
But will abide with thee most willingly.
Though all forsake thee Lord yet cannot I
For love hath wrought in me thy form divine
That thou art more my heart than heart is mine:
How can I then from myself thyself fly?
Thus thought Saint Peter and thus thinking fell
And by his fall did warn us not to swell.
Yet still in love I say I would not fall
And say in hope I trust I never shall
But cannot say in faith what might I do
To learn to say it by hearing Christ say so.

Jesus is risen from the infernal mire:
But who art thou that say'st Jesus arose?
Such holy words are only fit for those
Whose souls with Christ above the heavens aspire.
But if thou hast not raisd thy desire
From earth to heaven but in the world dost close
Thy love which unto heaven thou shouldst dispose
Say not that Christ is yet ascended higher
But yet within thy heart he lieth dead
And by the devil is impoisond.
Rejoice not then in vain of his ascent
For as his glorious rise doth much augment
All good men's hopes so unto those that tread
False paths it is a dreadful argument. 

The earth which in delicious paradise
Did bud forth man like cedars stately tall
From barren womb accursd by the fall
Doth thrust forth man as thorns in arm&eagrave
d wise
Darting the points of sin against the skies.
With those thorns plaited was Christ's coronal
Which crowned him then with grief but after all
In heaven shall crown him crown themselves with glory.
For with the purple tincture of his blood
Which out the furrows of his brows did rain
He hath transformed us thorns from baser wood
To raise our nature and odrant strain
That we who with our thorny sins did wound him
Hereafter should with roseal virtues crown him. 

Eternity the womb of things created
The endless bottom of duration
Whose half was always past yet unbegun
And half behind still coming unabated
Whose thread conjoind both unseparated
Is time which dated is by motion
Eternity whose real thoughts are one
With God that is everness actuated:
O tie my soul unto this endless clew
That I may overfathom fate and time
In all my actions which I do pursue
And bound my thoughts in that unbounded clime:
For soul and thoughts designs and acts are evil
That under compass of this life do level. 

The first beginning of creation
Was God
the end thereof in man was set
End and beginning were together met
So God and man became one person.
Thus nature's circle as a ring doth run
Christ is the pale within whose circulet
The seal of the divinity is knit
Which seal doth stand the Godhead's ring upon.
So stand two rings upon one diamond
The knot of both and either where are met
Finite and infinite more and one
Alpha and Omega in that fair tablet
Wherein is drawn the angels' alphabet
Jesus. If he were learnt need more be known? 

O wretched man the knot of contraries
In whom both heaven and earth doth move and rest
Heaven of my mind which with Christ's love is blest
Death of my heart which in dull languor lies!
Yet doth my moving will still circulize
My heaven about my earth with thoughts' unrest
Where reason as a sun from east to west
Darteth his shining beams to melt this ice.
And now with fear it southward doth descend
Now between both is equinoctial
And now to joys it higher doth ascend
And yet continues my sea glacial.
What shall I do but pray to Christ the Son?
In earth as heaven Lord let thy will be done.

Down the strait vistas where a city street
Fades in pale dust and vaporous distances
Stained with far fumes the light grows less and less
And the sky reddens round the day's retreat.
Now out of orient chambers cool and sweet
Like Nature's pure lustration Dusk comes down.
Now the lamps brighten and the quickening town
Rings with the trample of returning feet.
And Pleasure risen from her own warm mould
Sunk all the drowsy and unloved daylight
In layers of odorous softness Paphian girls
Cover with gauze with satin and with pearls
Crown and about her spangly vestments fold
The ermine of the empire of the Night. 

Her courts are by the flux of flaming ways
Between the rivers and the illumined sky
Whose fervid depths reverberate from on high
Fierce lustres mingled in a fiery haze.
They mark it inland
blithe and fair of face
Her suitors follow guessing by the glare
Beyond the hilltops in the evening air
How bright the cressets at her portals blaze.
On the pure fronts Defeat ere many a day
Falls like the soot and dirt on city-snow
There hopes deferred lie sunk in piteous seams.
Her paths are disillusion and decay
With ruins piled and unapparent woe
The graves of Beauty and the wreck of dreams. 

There was a youth around whose early way
White angels hung in converse and sweet choir
Teaching in summer clouds his thought to stray --
In cloud and far horizon to desire.
His life was nursed in beauty like the stream
Born of clear showers and the mountain dew
Close under snow-clad summits where they gleam
Forever pure against heaven's orient blue.
Within the city's shades he walked at last.
Faint and more faint in sad recessional
Down the dim corridors of Time outworn
A chorus ebbed from that forsaken past
A hymn of glories fled beyond recall
With the lost heights and splendor of life's morn. 

Up at his attic sill the South wind came
And days of sun and storm but never peace.
Along the town's tumultuous arteries
He heard the heart-throbs of a sentient frame:
Each night the whistles in the bay the same
Whirl of incessant wheels and clanging cars:
For smoke that half obscured the circling stars
Burnt like his youth with but a sickly flame.
Up to his attic came the city cries --
The throes with which her iron sinews heave --
And yet forever behind prison doors
Welled in his heart and trembled in his eyes
The light that hangs on desert hills at eve
And tints the sea on solitary shores...

A tide of beauty with returning May
Floods the fair city
from warm pavements fume
Odors endeared
down avenues in bloom
The chestnut-trees with phallic spires are gay.
Over the terrace flows the thronged cafe
The boulevards are streams of hurrying sound
And through the streets like veins when they abound
The lust for pleasure throbs itself away.
Here let me live here let me still pursue
Phantoms of bliss that beckon and recede --
Thy strange allurements City that I love
Maze of romance where I have followed too
The dream Youth treasures of its dearest need
And stars beyond thy towers bring tidings of.

Give me the treble of thy horns and hoofs
The ponderous undertones of 'bus and tram
A garret and a glimpse across the roofs
Of clouds blown eastward over Notre Dame
The glad-eyed streets and radiant gatherings
Where I drank deep the bliss of being young
The strife and sweet potential flux of things
I sought Youth's dream of happiness among!
It walks here aureoled with the city-light
Forever through the myriad-featured mass
Flaunting not far its fugitive embrace --
Heard sometimes in a song across the night
Caught in a perfume from the crowds that pass
And when love yields to love seen face to face.

To me a pilgrim on that journey bound
Whose stations Beauty's bright examples are
As of a silken city famed afar
Over the sands for wealth and holy ground
Came the report of one -- a woman crowned
With all perfection blemishless and high
As the full moon amid the moonlit sky
With the world's praise and wonder clad around.
And I who held this notion of success:
To leave no form of Nature's loveliness
Unworshipped if glad eyes have access there --
Beyond all earthly bounds have made my goal
To find where that sweet shrine is and extol
The hand that triumphed in a work so fair.

Oft as by chance a little while apart
The pall of empty loveless hours withdrawn
Sweet Beauty opening on the impoverished heart
Beams like the jewel on the breast of dawn:
Not though high heaven should rend would deeper awe
Fill me than penetrates my spirit thus
Nor all those signs the Patmian prophet saw
Seem a new heaven and earth so marvelous
But clad thenceforth in iridescent dyes
The fair world glistens and in after days
The memory of kind lips and laughing eyes
Lives in my step and lightens all my face --
So they who found the Earthly Paradise
Still breathed returned of that sweet joyful place.

Amid the florid multitude her face
Was like the full moon seen behind the lace
Of orchard boughs where clouded blossoms part
When Spring shines in the world and in the heart.
As the full-moon-beams to the ferny floor
Of summer woods through flower and foliage pour
So to my being's innermost recess
Flooded the light of so much loveliness
She held as in a vase of priceless ware
The wine that over arid ways and bare
My youth was the pathetic thirsting for
And where she moved the veil of Nature grew
Diaphanous and that radiance mantled through
Which when I see I tremble and adore.

A splendor flamelike born to be pursued
With palms extent for amorous charity
And eyes incensed with love for all they see
A wonder more to be adored than wooed
On whom the grace of conscious womanhood
Adorning every little thing she does
Sits like enchantment making glorious
A careless pose a casual attitude
Around her lovely shoulders mantle-wise
Hath come the realm of those old fabulous queens
Whose storied loves are Art's rich heritage
To keep alive in this our latter age
That force that moving through sweet Beauty's means
Lifts up Man's soul to towering enterprise. 

When among creatures fair of countenance
Love comes enformed in such proud character
So far as other beauty yields to her
So far the breast with fiercer longing pants
I bless the spot and hour and circumstance
That wed desire to a thing so high
And say Glad soul rejoice for thou and I
Of bliss unpaired are made participants
Hence have come ardent thoughts and waking dreams
That feeding Fancy from so sweet a cup
Leave it no lust for gross imaginings.
Through her the woman's perfect beauty gleams
That while it gazes lifts the spirit up
To that high source from which all beauty springs.

Like as a dryad from her native bole
Coming at dusk when the dim stars emerge
To a slow river at whose silent verge
Tall poplars tremble and deep grasses roll
Come thou no less and kneeling in a shoal
Of the freaked flag and meadow buttercup
Bend till thine image from the pool beam up
Arched with blue heaven like an aureole.
See how adorable in fancy then
Lives the fair face it mirrors even so
O thou whose beauty moving among men
Is like the wind's way on the woods below
Filling all nature where its pathway lies
With arms that supplicate and trembling sighs. 

I fancied while you stood conversing there
Superb in every attitude a queen
Her ermine thus Boadicea bare
So moved amid the multitude Faustine.
My life whose whole religion Beauty is
Be charged with sin if ever before yours
A lesser feeling crossed my mind than his
Who owning grandeur marvels and adores.
Nay rather in my dream-world's ivory tower
I made your image the high pearly sill
And mounting there in many a wistful hour
Burdened with love I trembled and was still
Seeing discovered from that azure height
Remote untrod horizons of delight. 

It may be for the world of weeds and tares
And dearth in Nature of sweet Beauty's rose
That oft as Fortune from ten thousand shows
One from the train of Love's true courtiers
Straightway on him who gazes unawares
Deep wonder seizes and swift trembling grows
Reft by that sight of purpose and repose
Hardly its weight his fainting breast upbears.
Then on the soul from some ancestral place
Floods back remembrance of its heavenly birth
When in the light of that serener sphere
It saw ideal beauty face to face
That through the forms of this our meaner Earth
Shines with a beam less steadfast and less clear.

Above the ruin of God's holy place
Where man-forsaken lay the bleeding rood
Whose hands when men had craved substantial food
Gave not nor folded when they cried Embrace
I saw exalted in the latter days
Her whom west winds with natal foam bedewed
Wafted toward Cyprus lily-breasted nude
Standing with arms out-stretched and flower-like face.
And sick with all those centuries of tears
Shed in the penance for factitious woe
Once more I saw the nations at her feet
For Love shone in their eyes and in their ears
Come unto me Love beckoned them for lo!
The breast your lips abjured is still as sweet.

Who shall invoke her who shall be her priest
With single rites the common debt to pay?
On some green headland fronting to the East
Our fairest boy shall kneel at break of day.
Naked uplifting in a laden tray
New milk and honey and sweet-tinctured wine
Not without twigs of clustering apple-spray
To wreath a garland for Our Lady's shrine.
The morning planet poised above the sea
Shall drop sweet influence through her drowsing lid
Dew-drenched his delicate virginity
Shall scarce disturb the flowers he kneels amid
That waked so lightly shall lift up their eyes
Cushion his knees and nod between his thighs. 

Lay me where soft Cyrene rambles down
In grove and garden to the sapphire sea
Twine yellow roses for the drinker's crown
Let music reach and fair heads circle me
Watching blue ocean where the white sails steer
Fruit-laden forth or with the wares and news
Of merchant cities seek our harbors here
Careless how Corinth fares how Syracuse
But here with love and sleep in her caress
Warm night shall sink and utterly persuade
The gentle doctrine Aristippus bare --
Night-winds and one whose white youth's loveliness
In a flowered balcony beside me laid
Dreams with the starlight on her fragrant hair.

Stretched on a sunny bank he lay at rest
Ferns at his elbow lilies round his knees
With sweet flesh patterned where the cool turf pressed
Flowerlike crept o'er with emerald aphides.
Single he couched there to his circling flocks
Piping at times some happy shepherd's tune
Nude with the warm wind in his golden locks
And arched with the blue Asian afternoon.
Past him gorse-purpled to the distant coast
Rolled the clear foothills. There his white-walled town
There a blue band the placid Euxine lay.
Beyond on fields of azure light embossed
He watched from noon till dewy eve came down
The summer clouds pile up and fade away. 

Her eyes under their lashes were blue pools
Fringed round with lilies
her bright hair unfurled
Clothed her as sunshine clothes the summer world.
Her robes were gauzes -- gold and green and gules
All furry things flocked round her from her hand
Nibbling their foods and fawning at her feet.
Two peacocks watched her where she made her seat
Beside a fountain in Broceliande.
Sometimes she sang... Whoever heard forgot
Errand and aim and knights at noontide here
Riding from fabulous gestes beyond the seas
Would follow tranced and seek... and find her not...
But wake that night lost by some woodland mere
Powdered with stars and rimmed with silent trees. 

I loved illustrious cities and the crowds
That eddy through their incandescent nights.
I loved remote horizons with far clouds
Girdled and fringed about with snowy heights.
I loved fair women their sweet conscious ways
Of wearing among hands that covet and plead
The rose ablossom at the rainbow's base
That bounds the world's desire and all its need.
Nature I worshipped whose fecundity
Embraces every vision the most fair
Of perfect benediction. From a boy
I gloated on existence. Earth to me
Seemed all-sufficient and my sojourn there
One trembling opportunity for joy.

I care not that one listen if he lives
For aught but life's romance nor puts above
All life's necessities the need to love
Nor counts his greatest wealth what Beauty gives.
But sometime on an afternoon in spring
When dandelions dot the fields with gold
And under rustling shade a few weeks old
'Tis sweet to stroll and hear the bluebirds sing
Do you blond head whom beauty and the power
Of being young and winsome have prepared
For life's last privilege that really pays
Make the companion of an idle hour
These relics of the time when I too fared
Across the sweet fifth lustrum of my days. 

As one of some fat tillage dispossessed
Weighing the yield of these four faded years
If any ask what fruit seems loveliest
What lasting gold among the garnered ears --
Ah then I'll say what hours I had of thine
Therein I reaped Time's richest revenue
Read in thy text the sense of David's line
Through thee achieved the love that Shakespeare knew.
Take then his book laden with mine own love
As flowers made sweeter by deep-drunken rain
That when years sunder and between us move
Wide waters and less kindly bonds constrain
Thou may'st turn here dear boy and reading see
Some part of what thy friend once felt for thee. 

Be my companion under cool arcades
That frame some drowsy street and dazzling square
Beyond whose flowers and palm-tree promenades
White belfries burn in the blue tropic air.
Lie near me in dim forests where the croon
Of wood-doves sounds and moss-banked water flows
Or musing late till the midsummer moon
Breaks through some ruined abbey's empty rose.
Sweetest of those to-day whose pious hands
Tend the sequestered altar of Romance
Where fewer offerings burn and fewer kneel
Pour there your passionate beauty on my heart
And gladdening such solitudes impart
How sweet the fellowship of those who feel!

The rooks aclamor when one enters here
Startle the empty towers far overhead
Through gaping walls the summer fields appear
Green tan or poppy-mingled tinged with red.
The courts where revel rang deep grass and moss
Cover and tangled vines have overgrown
The gate where banners blazoned with a cross
Rolled forth to toss round Tyre and Ascalon.
Decay consumes it. The old causes fade.
And fretting for the contest many a heart
Waits their Tyrtaeus to chant on the new.
Oh pass him by who in this haunted shade
Musing enthralled has only this much art
To love the things the birds and flowers love too.

Though thou art now a ruin bare and cold
Thou wert sometime the garden of a king.
The birds have sought a lovelier place to sing.
The flowers are few. It was not so of old.
It was not thus when hand in hand there strolled
Through arbors perfumed with undying Spring
Bare bodies beautiful brown glistening
Decked with green plumes and rings of yellow gold.
Do you suppose the herdsman sometimes hears
Vague echoes borne beneath the moon's pale ray
From those old old far-off forgotten years?
Who knows? Here where his ancient kings held sway
He stands. Their names are strangers to his ears.
Even their memory has passed away. 

Another prospect pleased the builder's eye
And Fashion tenanted (where Fashion wanes)
Here in the sorrowful suburban lanes
When first these gables rose against the sky.
Relic of a romantic taste gone by
This stately monument alone remains
Vacant with lichened walls and window-panes
Blank as the windows of a skull. But I
On evenings when autumnal winds have stirred
In the porch-vines to this gray oracle
Have laid a wondering ear and oft-times heard
As from the hollow of a stranded shell
Old voices echoing (or my fancy erred)
Things indistinct but not insensible. 

A hilltop sought by every soothing breeze
That loves the melody of murmuring boughs
Cool shades green acreage and antique house
Fronting the ocean and the dawn
than these
Old monks built never for the spirit's ease
Cloisters more calm -- not Cluny nor Clairvaux
Sweet are the noises from the bay below
And cuckoos calling in the tulip-trees.
Here a yet empty suitor in thy train
Beloved Poesy great joy was mine
To while a listless spell of summer days
Happier than hoarder in each evening's gain
When evenings found me richer by one line
One verse well turned or serviceable phrase. 

Tonight a shimmer of gold lies mantled o'er
Smooth lovely Ocean. Through the lustrous gloom
A savor steals from linden trees in bloom
And gardens ranged at many a palace door.
Proud walls rise here and where the moonbeams pour
Their pale enchantment down the dim coast-line
Terrace and lawn trim hedge and flowering vine
Crown with fair culture all the sounding shore.
How sweet to such a place on such a night
From halls with beauty and festival a-glare
To come distract and stretched on the cool turf
Yield to some fond improbable delight
While the moon reddening sinks and all the air
Sighs with the muffled tumult of the surf! 

A cloud has lowered that shall not soon pass o'er.
The world takes sides: whether for impious aims
With Tyranny whose bloody toll enflames
A generous people to heroic war
Whether with Freedom stretched in her own gore
Whose pleading hands and suppliant distress
Still offer hearts that thirst for Righteousness
A glorious cause to strike or perish for.
England which side is thine? Thou hast had sons
Would shrink not from the choice however grim
Were Justice trampled on and Courage downed
Which will they be -- cravens or champions?
Oh if a doubt intrude remember him
Whose death made Missolonghi holy ground. 

I stood beside his sepulchre whose fame
Hurled over Europe once on bolt and blast
Now glows far off as storm-clouds overpast
Glow in the sunset flushed with glorious flame.
Has Nature marred his mould? Can Art acclaim
No hero now no man with whom men side
As with their hearts' high needs personified?
There are will say One such our lips could name
Columbia gave him birth. Him Genius most
Gifted to rule. Against the world's great man
Lift their low calumny and sneering cries
The Pharisaic multitude the host
Of piddling slanderers whose little eyes
Know not what greatness is and never can. 

Sidney in whom the heyday of romance
Came to its precious and most perfect flower
Whether you tourneyed with victorious lance
Or brought sweet roundelays to Stella's bower
I give myself some credit for the way
I have kept clean of what enslaves and lowers
Shunned the ideals of our present day
And studied those that were esteemed in yours
For turning from the mob that buys Success
By sacrificing all Life's better part
Down the free roads of human happiness
I frolicked poor of purse but light of heart
And lived in strict devotion all along
To my three idols -- Love and Arms and Song. 

Not that I always struck the proper mean
Of what mankind must give for what they gain
But when I think of those whom dull routine
And the pursuit of cheerless toil enchain
Who from their desk-chairs seeing a summer cloud
Race through blue heaven on its joyful course
Sigh sometimes for a life less cramped and bowed
I think I might have done a great deal worse
For I have ever gone untied and free
The stars and my high thoughts for company
Wet with the salt-spray and the mountain showers
I have had the sense of space and amplitude
And love in many places silver-shoed
Has come and scattered all my path with flowers.

Why should you be astonished that my heart
Plunged for so long in darkness and in dearth
Should be revived by you and stir and start
As by warm April now reviving Earth?
I am the field of undulating grass
And you the gentle perfumed breath of Spring
And all my lyric being when you pass
Is bowed and filled with sudden murmuring.
I asked you nothing and expected less
But with that deep impassioned tenderness
Of one approaching what he most adores
I only wished to lose a little space
All thought of my own life and in its place
To live and dream and have my joy in yours. 

If I was drawn here from a distant place
'Twas not to pray nor hear our friend's address
But gazing once more on your winsome face
To worship there Ideal Loveliness.
On that pure shrine that has too long ignored
The gifts that once I brought so frequently
I lay this votive offering to record
How sweet your quiet beauty seemed to me.
Enchanting girl my faith is not a thing
By futile prayers and vapid psalm-singing
To vent in crowded nave and public pew.
My creed is simple: that the world is fair
And beauty the best thing to worship there
And I confess it by adoring you. 

Seeing you have not come with me nor spent
This day's suggestive beauty as we ought
I have gone forth alone and been content
To make you mistress only of my thought.
And I have blessed the fate that was so kind
In my life's agitations to include
This moment's refuge where my sense can find
Refreshment and my soul beatitude.
Oh be my gentle love a little while!
Walk with me sometimes. Let me see you smile.
Watching some night under a wintry sky
Before the charge or on the bed of pain
These blessed memories shall revive again
And be a power to cheer and fortify.

Oh you are more desirable to me
Than all I staked in an impulsive hour
Making my youth the sport of chance to be
Blighted or torn in its most perfect flower
For I think less of what that chance may bring
Than how before returning into fire
To make my dearest memory of the thing
That is but now my ultimate desire.
And in old times I should have prayed to her
Whose haunt the groves of windy Cyprus were
To prosper me and crown with good success
My will to make of you the rose-twined bowl
From whose inebriating brim my soul
Shall drink its last of earthly happiness.

There have been times when I could storm and plead
But you shall never hear me supplicate.
These long months that have magnified my need
Have made my asking less importunate
For now small favors seem to me so great
That not the courteous lovers of old time
Were more content to rule themselves and wait
Easing desire with discourse and sweet rhyme.
Nay be capricious willful
have no fear
To wound me with unkindness done or said
Lest mutual devotion make too dear
My life that hangs by a so slender thread
And happy love unnerve me before May
For that stern part that I have yet to play.

Oh love of woman you are known to be
A passion sent to plague the hearts of men
For every one you bring felicity
Bringing rebuffs and wretchedness to ten.
I have been oft where human life sold cheap
And seen men's brains spilled out about their ears
And yet that never cost me any sleep
I lived untroubled and I shed no tears.
Fools prate how war is an atrocious thing
I always knew that nothing it implied
Equalled the agony of suffering
Of him who loves and loves unsatisfied.
War is a refuge to a heart like this
Love only tells it what true torture is. 

Well seeing I have no hope then let us part
Having long taught my flesh to master fear
I should have learned by now to rule my heart
Although Heaven knows 'tis not so easy near.
Oh you were made to make men miserable
And torture those who would have joy in you
But I who could have loved you dear so well
Take pride in being a good loser too
And it has not been wholly unsuccess
For I have rescued from forgetfulness
Some moments of this precious time that flies
Adding to my past wealth of memory
The pretty way you once looked up at me
Your low sweet voice your smile and your dear eyes.

I have sought Happiness but it has been
A lovely rainbow baffling all pursuit
And tasted Pleasure but it was a fruit
More fair of outward hue than sweet within.
Renouncing both a flake in the ferment
Of battling hosts that conquer or recoil
There only chastened by fatigue and toil
I knew what came the nearest to content.
For there at least my troubled flesh was free
From the gadfly Desire that plagued it so
Discord and Strife were what I used to know
Heartaches deception murderous jealousy
By War transported far from all of these
Amid the clash of arms I was at peace.

Apart sweet women (for whom Heaven be blessed)
Comrades you cannot think how thin and blue
Look the leftovers of mankind that rest
Now that the cream has been skimmed off in you.
War has its horrors but has this of good --
That its sure processes sort out and bind
Brave hearts in one intrepid brotherhood
And leave the shams and imbeciles behind.
Now turn we joyful to the great attacks
Not only that we face in a fair field
Our valiant foe and all his deadly tools
But also that we turn disdainful backs
On that poor world we scorn yet die to shield --
That world of cowards hypocrites and fools. 

Clouds rosy-tinted in the setting sun
Depths of the azure eastern sky between
Plains where the poplar-bordered highways run
Patched with a hundred tints of brown and green --
Beauty of Earth when in thy harmonies
The cannon's note has ceased to be a part
I shall return once more and bring to these
The worship of an undivided heart.
Of those sweet potentialities that wait
For my heart's deep desire to fecundate
I shall resume the search if Fortune grants
And the great cities of the world shall yet
Be golden frames for me in which to set
New masterpieces of more rare romance. 

Deep in the sloping forest that surrounds
The head of a green valley that I know
Spread the fair gardens and ancestral grounds
Of Bellinglise the beautiful chateau.
Through shady groves and fields of unmown grass
It was my joy to come at dusk and see
Filling a little pond's untroubled glass
Its antique towers and mouldering masonry.
Oh should I fall to-morrow lay me here
That o'er my tomb with each reviving year
Wood-flowers may blossom and the wood-doves croon
And lovers by that unrecorded place
Passing may pause and cling a little space
Close-bosomed at the rising of the moon.

Here where in happier times the huntsman's horn
Echoing from far made sweet midsummer eves
Now serried cannon thunder night and morn
Tearing with iron the greenwood's tender leaves.
Yet has sweet Spring no particle withdrawn
Of her old bounty
still the song-birds hail
Even through our fusillade delightful Dawn
Even in our wire bloom lilies of the vale.
You who love flowers take these
their fragile bells
Have trembled with the shock of volleyed shells
And in black nights when stealthy foes advance
They have been lit by the pale rockets' glow
That o'er scarred fields and ancient towns laid low
Trace in white fire the brave frontiers of France. 

The man that's poor and prosecutes the muse
Said I "alas! is like to lose his cause."
So I resolved with her to have a truce
Quite well aware I could not learn her laws.
Though some assert that hers like ours have flaws
Which let her pleaders 'peach. I'm even content
To own her power and give my bickerings pause
A liegeman to her gambol government.
For late as sauntering through the woods I went
She met me smiling. "Come" said I "let's plight
Our troth again." Quoth she (with lips up-bent):
"We're not so near akin but what we might!"
So now we lead a joyous jangling life
And kiss and quarrel--just like man and wife. 

Sure merry May thy reign is near allied
To that of early love.--Thy subjects play
Blushing in bloom
and pranked in frolic pride
Right freshly shines thy blithe and breezy day.
In the green shade that scarce excludes the ray
The insect hum is up
the brilliant fly
Lights on a sunny leaf and glistens gay
While the coy blackcap warbles wildly nigh.
Quick shoots the gossamer all reddening bright
With sunny glance: the sharp-winged swallows high
Sail nimbly: and full many a flowret's eye
Looks eager on thy realm with flush delight.
Sure thou art akin to love sweet May.--And I
Perchance could tell some other reason why.

There are who say the sonnet's meted maze
Is all too fettered for the poet's powers
Compelled to crowd his flush and airy flowers
Like pots of tall imperials ill at ease.
Or should some tiny thought his fancy seize
A violet on a vase's top it towers
And mid the mass of leaves he round it showers
Its little cap and tippet scarce can raise.
Others assert the sonnet's proper praise
Like petalled flowers to each its due degree
The king-cup five the pilewort eight bright rays
The speedwell four the green-tipped snowdrop three:
So mid the bard's all-petalled sorts is seen
The sonnet--simple flowret of fourteen. 

Reynolds no more as erst two frolic boys
By Severn's side our school-day tricks we try
For me now holds the love of rural joys
Thee city pomp light sock and buskin high.
Yet distance dares not bid us leave to ply
The social sheet or court our mutual muse
For distance cannot time-tied souls untie
Nor dim the long horizon of their views.
But never let my woods their leafage lose
Till thou hast there admired ripe August glow
Nor shall in turn my friendly foot refuse
To beat thy threshold with December's snow.
So shalt thou love my rural joys: and I
Approve thy scenic pomp light sock and buskin high.

Paint me a picture where the golden hair
Like sunlight falls around the chiselled face
Of Grecian imaging
--limn me the grace
Of spiritual beauty jewel rare
In features human yet divinely fair.
Let through the dark-blue splendour of the eye
Ethereal Hope shine star-like with chaste Love
And on the brow a wisdom from above
And on the lip a happy secret lie
Fraught with the spirit's sweetest sorcery
Suffuse her face with Music and the charm--
The animated glow of lofty Thought
Let Cynthia's mien with stately mildness fraught
And queenly grace adorn th' ideal form
And let her stand on some green isle of bliss
Where seraphs stoop to woo her witching kiss. 

"Words are the coin of fools" so spake the sage
"But tables of the wise whereon they count
The golden gems of thought and keep the page
Of reckoning." So brother be the amount
Of all thou sayest or shalt say to men
The product of a pure true-seeking mind
And symbols of deep thought tried and refined
Won from the mine of rich experience
then
Shall all thy words be gold and will outlast
The eating rust of Time and men will say
When thou art dead--looking upon thy past--
"This man hath earned him a fair name for aye!"
And in the inmost shrine of memory
They'll rear a precious monument for thee.

Forgive me that I love you as I do
Friend patient long
too patient to reprove
The inconvenience of superfluous love.
You feel that it molests you and 'tis true.
In a light bark you sit with a full crew.
Your life full orbed compelled strange love to meet
Becomes by such addition incomplete:--
Because I love I leave you. O adieu!
Perhaps when I am gone the thought of me
May sometimes be your acceptable guest.
Indeed you love me: but my company
Old time makes tedious
and to part is best.
Not without Nature's will are natures wed:-
O gentle Death how dear thou makest the dead! 

Had I been worthy of the love you gave
That love withdrawn had left me sad but strong
My heart had been as silent as my tongue
My bed had been unfevered as my grave
I had not striven for what I could not save
Back back to heaven my great hopes I had flung
To have much suffered having done no wrong
Had seemed to me that noble part the brave
Account it ever. What this hour I am
Affirms the unworthiness that in me lurked:
Some sapping poison through my substance worked
Some sin not trivial though it lacked a name
Which ratifies the deed that you have done
With plain approval. Other plea seek none. 

Flowers I would bring if flowers could make thee fairer
And music if the Muse were dear to thee
(For loving these would make thee love the bearer)
But sweetest songs forget their melody
And loveliest flowers would but conceal the wearer:
A rose I marked and might have plucked
but she
Blushed as she bent imploring me to spare her
Nor spoil her beauty by such rivalry.
Alas! and with what gifts shall I pursue thee
What offerings bring what treasures lay before thee
When earth with all her floral train doth woo thee
And all old poets and old songs adore thee
And love to thee is naught
from passionate mood
Secured by joy's complacent plenitude. 

The mighty mountain plains have we two trod
Both in the glow of sunset and sunrise
And lighted by the moon of southern skies
The snow-white torrent of the thundering flood
We two have watched together: In the wood
We two have felt the warm tears dim our eyes
While zephyrs softer than an infant's sighs
Ruffled the light air of our solitude.
O Earth maternal Earth and thou O Heaven
And Night first born who now e'en now dost waken
The host of stars thy constellated train
Tell me if those can ever be forgiven
Those abject who together have partaken
These Sacraments of Nature--and in vain? 

I saw the Master of the Sun. He stood
High in his luminous car himself more bright
An Archer of immeasurable might
On his left shoulder hung his quivered load
Spurned by his Steeds the eastern mountain glowed
Forward his eager eye and brow of light
He bent
and while both hands that arch embowed
Shaft after shaft pursued the flying Night.
No wings profaned that godlike form: around
His neck high held an ever-moving crowd
Of locks hung glistening: while such perfect sound
Fell from his bowstring that th'ethereal dome
Thrilled as a dewdrop
and each passing cloud
Expanded whitening like the ocean foam. 

Count each affliction whether light or grave
God's messenger sent down to thee
do thou
With courtesy receive him
rise and bow
And ere his shadow pass thy threshold crave
Permission first his heavenly feet to lave
Then lay before him all thou hast : Allow
No cloud of passion to usurp thy brow
Or mar thy hospitality
no wave
Of mortal tumult to obliterate
The soul's marmoreal calmness: Grief should be
Like joy majestic equable sedate
Confirming cleansing raising making free
Strong to consume small troubles
to commend
Great thoughts grave thoughts thoughts lasting to the end.

As one that for a weary space has lain
Lulled by the song of Circe and her wine
In gardens near the pale of Proserpine
Where that AEaean isle forgets the main
And only the low lutes of love complain
And only shadows of wan lovers pine
As such an one were glad to know the brine
Salt on his lips and the large air again--
So gladly from the songs of modern speech
Men turn and see the stars and feel the free
Shrill wind beyond the close of heavy flowers
And through the music of the languid hours
They hear like ocean on a western beach
The surge and thunder of the Odyssey. 

Old Izaak in this angry age of ours
This hungry angry age how oft of thee
We dream and thy divine tranquillity
And all thy pleasure in the dewy flowers
The meads enamelled and the singing showers
And shelter of the silvery willow-tree
By quiet waters of the river Lea!
Ah happy hours! we cry--ah halcyon hours!
Yet thou like we hadst trouble for this realm
Of England: for thy dear Church mocked and rent
Thy friends in beggary thy monarch slain
But naught could thy mild spirit overwhelm.
Ah Father Izaak teach us thy content
When Time brings many a sorrow back again!

The sacred keep of Ilion is rent
With shaft and pit
vague waters wander slow
Through plains where Simois and Scamander went
To war with gods and heroes long ago:
Not yet to dark Cassandra lying low
In rich Mycen do the Fates relent
The bones of Agamemnon are a show
And ruined is his royal monument.
The awful dust and treasures of the Dead
Has Learning scattered wide
but vainly thee
Homer she measures with her Lesbian lead
And strives to rend thy songs: too blind is she
To know the crown on thine immortal head
Of indivisible supremacy. 

Thou that on every field of earth and sky
Didst hunt for Death--that seemed to flee and fear--
How great and greatly fallen dost thou lie
Slain in the Desert by some wandering spear!
"Not here" alas! may England say--"not here
Nor in this quarrel was it meet to die
But in that dreadful battle drawing nigh
To shake the Afghan passes strait and sheer."
Like Aias by the Ships shouldst thou have stood
And in some glen have stayed the stream of flight
The pillar of thy people and their shield
Till Helmund or till Indus ran with blood
And back towards the Northlands and the Night
The stricken Eagles scattered from the field.

Descending night enfolds the lonely veld.
Soon from the purple background of the sky
The spangled jewels of Orion's Belt
Will shine amidst the starry canopy.
Deep and yet deeper grows the changing scene.
The dim recesses of the dreamy plain
Wrapt in their endless solitude serene
Faint and yet fainter from the vision wane.
A tense mysterious silence holds its sway
And far beyond the distant mountains clear
The passing glimpses of declining day
Now vanish--and the Afric night is here!
So Nature's lamps are lighted at the call
Of her the handmaid of the God of all.

Penelope sat weaving all the day
Her web
and I weave mine of tender thought
And many a quaint device by me is wrought
Of Fancy's golden threads. What will he say
When he shall come? Will he entreat and pray
To see the legend? Will his heart be taught
By it? Night comes and brings me naught
I must unweave: Ulysses is away
But when my hero shall at last have come
And his dear eyes have proved my colors true
I wonder will my stammering lips be dumb
My heart's great love unspoken? Then must you
Dear woven thing help eyes and blushing cheek
To tell him all I feel but cannot speak.

Time! thou destroyest the relics of the past
And hidest all the footprints of thy march
On shattered column and on crumbled arch
By moss and ivy growing green and fast.
Hurled into fragments by the tempest-blast
The Rhodian monster lies
the obelisk
That with sharp line divided the broad disk
Of Egypt's sun down to the sands was cast:
And where these stood no remnant-trophy stands
And even the art is dead by which they rose:
Thus with the monuments of other lands
The place that knew them now no longer knows.
Yet triumph not O Time
strong towers decay
But a great name shall never pass away

What though my years are falling like thy leaves
Oh Autumn! When the winds are plumed with night--
They have thy colors thy enameled light
And all the fullness of thy ripened sheaves.
Of verdant joys aggressive Time bereaves
And the glad transports of unclouded dawn
But though the shadows deepen on Life's lawn
Rays of serene and solemn beauty shed
A mellow lustre on my fading hours
And with a calm and tempered joy I tread
Paths still bedecked with iridescent flowers--
Like thine oh Autumn! ere the sober gray
Of Winter steals thy glorious tints away.

Upon an eminence I seem to stand
And look around me. Backward I survey
A lovely prospect stretching far away
Through mists that curtain all the nearer land.
There once I wandered gayly hand in hand
With the companions of my happy spring
It was Life's realm of Fairy rainbow-spanned
Where birds and brooks together loved to sing
And every cloud made pictures as it sailed.
That music yet resounds those pictures shine
Through the far distance Time has faintly veiled
Though many a rock stream valley intervene
Between me and that fairy-haunted scene. 

Heart that with warm and generous feeling beat--
How strange it seems to one who loved thee well
That over thee has pealed the solemn knell
And not one spark of all that genial heat
Remains each high-born sympathy to greet
And glow with fond affection when some word
Uttered in tone harmonious low and sweet
Thy fervent depths to kind emotions stirred!
Alas--that thou when life was doubly dear
When once more reunited to thine own
After such weary years of absence flown
Should'st be translated--though to that bright sphere
On which in child-like earnestness and faith
Thy looks were turned beyond the door of death.

Is this a painting? Are those pictured clouds
Which on the sky so movelessly repose?
Has some rare artist fashioned forth the shrouds
Of yonder vessel? Are these imaged shows
Of outline figure form or is there life
Life with a thousand pulses in the scene
We gaze upon? Those towering banks between
E'er tossed these billows in tumultuous strife?
Billows! there's not a wave! the waters spread
One broad unbroken mirror! all around
Is hushed to silence silence so profound
That a bird's carol or an arrow sped
Into the distance would like larum bell
Jar the deep stillness and dissolve the spell!

The shadows lengthen of the elm and lime
While Night with her dark cloak enfolds the land
And lights the watch-fires where her sentinels stand
Waiting for dawn. Hushed is the forge of time
Whereon men fashion noble deed and crime
For Nature's pulse beats thro' the empty strand
And heavy-scented lane as hand in hand
With leaden-footed Night she threads the dark sublime.
Then from the Seventh Gate's ivory portal hies
Grim Death's twin-sister Sleep with slumbrous crown
Of drooping poppies dipped in Lethe's stream
And here a kiss and here a rosy dream
Bestows on mortals soothing tired eyes
With gracious gifts that pain and sorrow drown.

Still still my eye will gaze long fixed on thee
Till I forget that I am called a man
And at thy side fast-rooted seem to be
And the breeze comes my cheek with thine to fan.
Upon this craggy hill our life shall pass
A life of summer days and summer joys
Nodding our honey-bells mid pliant grass
In which the bee half hid his time employs
And here we'll drink with thirsty pores the rain
And turn dew-sprinkled to the rising sun
And look when in the flaming west again
His orb across the heaven its path has run
Here left in darkness on the rocky steep
My weary eyes shall close like folding flowers in sleep.

The clear bright morning with its scented air
And gaily waving flowers is here again
Man's heart is lifted with the voice of prayer
And peace descends as falls the gentle rain
The tuneful birds that all the night have slept
Take up at dawn the evening's dying lay
When sleep upon their eyelids gently crept
And stole with stealthy craft their song away.
High overhead the forest's swaying boughs
Sprinkle with drops the traveler on his way
He hears far off the tinkling bells of cows
Driven to pasture at the break of day
With vigorous step he passes swift along
Making the woods reecho with his song.

The morning comes and thickening clouds prevail
Hanging like curtains all the horizon round
Or overhead in heavy stillness sail
So still is day it seems like night profound
Scarce by the city's din the air is stirred
And dull and deadened comes its every sound
The cock's shrill piercing voice subdued is heard
By the thick folds of muffling vapors drowned.
Dissolved in mists the hills and trees appear
Their outlines lost and blended with the sky
And well-known objects that to all are near
No longer seem familiar to the eye
But with fantastic forms they mock the sight
As when we grope amid the gloom of night. 

The bubbling brook doth leap when I come by
Because my feet find measure with its call
The birds know when the friend they love is nigh
For I am known to them both great and small.
The flower that on the lonely hillside grows
Expects me there when spring its bloom has given
And many a tree and bush my wanderings knows
And e'en the clouds and silent stars of heaven
For he who with his Maker walks aright
Shall be their lord as Adam was before
His ear shall catch each sound with new delight
Each object wear the dress that then it wore
And he as when erect in soul he stood
Hear from his Father's lips that all is good.

I saw the spot where our first parents dwelt
And yet it wore to me no face of change
For while amid its fields and groves I felt
As if I had not sinned nor thought it strange
My eye seemed but a part of every sight
My ear heard music in each sound that rose
Each sense forever found a new delight
Such as the spirit's vision only knows
Each act some new and ever-varying joy
Did by my Father's love for me prepare
To dress the spot my ever fresh employ
And in the glorious whole with Him to share
No more without the flaming gate to stray
No more for sin's dark stain the debt of death to pay.

When I would sing of crooked streams and fields
On on from me they stretch too far and wide
And at their look my song all powerless yields
And down the river bears me with its tide
Amid the fields I am a child again
The spots that then I loved I love the more
My fingers drop the strangely scrawling pen
And I remember nought but nature's lore
I plunge me in the river's cooling wave
Or on the embroidered bank admiring lean
Now some endangered insect life to save
Now watch the pictured flowers and grasses green
Forever playing where a boy I played
By hill and grove by field and stream delayed.

I see them crowd on crowd they walk the earth
Dry leafless trees no Autumn wind laid bare
And in their nakedness find cause for mirth
And all unclad would winter's rudeness dare
No sap doth through their clattering branches flow
Whence springing leaves and blossoms bright appear
Their hearts the living God have ceased to know
Who gives the spring time to th'expectant year
They mimic life as if from him to steal
His glow of health to paint the livid cheek
They borrow words for thoughts they cannot feel
That with a seeming heart their tongue may speak
And in their show of life more dead they live
Than those that to the earth with many tears they give.

Cupid thou naughty boy when thou wert loathed
Naked and blind for vagabonding noted
Thy nakedness I in my reason clothed
Mine eyes I gave thee so was I devoted.
Fie wanton fie! who would show children kindness?
No sooner he into mine eyes was gotten
But straight he clouds them with a seeing blindness
Makes reason wish that reason were forgotten.
From thence to Myra's eyes the wanton strayeth
Where while I charge him with ungrateful measure
So with fair wonders he mine eyes betrayeth
That my wounds and his wrongs become my pleasure
Till for more spite to Myra's heart he flyeth
Where living to the world to me he dieth. 

Fie foolish earth think you the heaven wants glory
Because your shadows do yourself benight?
All's dark unto the blind let them be sorry
But love still in herself finds her delight.
Fie fond desire think you that love wants glory
Because your shadows do yourself benight?
The hopes and fears of lust may make men sorry
The heavens in themselves are ever bright.
Then earth stand fast the sky that you benight
Will turn again and so restore your glory
Desire be steady hope is your delight
An orb wherein no creature can be sorry
Love being placed above these middle regions
Where every passion wars itself with legions.

When night's black mantle could most darkness prove
And sleep (death's image) did my senses hire
From knowledge of myself then thoughts did move
Swifter than those most switness need require.
In sleep a chariot drawn by wing'd Desire
I saw where sate bright Venus Queen of love
And at her feet her son still adding fire
To burning hearts which she did hold above.
But one heart flaming more than all the rest
The goddess held and put it to my breast.
Dear Son now shoot she said this must we win.
He her obeyed and martyr'd my poor heart.
I waking hop'd as dreams it would depart
Yet since O me a lover have I been. 

Dear eyes how well (indeed) you do adorn
That blessed sphere which gazing souls hold dear:
The loved place of sought for triumphs near:
The court of glory where Love's force was born:
How may they term you April's sweetest morn
When pleasing looks from those bright lights appear:
A sun-shine day
from clouds and mists still clear
Kind nursing fires for wishes yet unborn!
Two stars of Heaven sent down to grace the Earth
Plac'd in that throne which gives all joys their birth
Shining and burning
pleasing yet their charms
Which wounding even in hurts are deem'd delights
So pleasant is their force! So great their mights
As happy they can triumph in their harms.

Yet is their hope: Then Love but play thy part
Remember well thy self and think on me
Shine in those eyes which conquer'd have my heart
And see if mine be slack to answer thee:
Lodge in that breast and pity moving see
For flames which in mine burn in truest smart
Exiling thoughts that touch inconstancy
Or those which waste not in the constant art
Watch but my sleep if I take any rest
For thought of you my spiritt soe distressed
As pale and famish'd I for mercy cry
Will you your servant leave? Think but on this
Who wears love's crown must not do so amiss
But seek their good who on thy force do lie.

Forbear dark night my joys now bud again
Lately grown dead while cold aspects did chill
The root at heart and my chief hope quite kill
And thunders struck me in my pleasures' wane
Then I alas with bitter sobs and pain
Privately groan'd my Fortunes present ill
All light of comfort dimm'd woes in prides fill
With strange increase of grief I griev'd in vain.
And most when as a memory too good
Molested me which still as witness stood
Of those best days in former time I knew:
Late gone as wonders past like the great Snow
Melted and wasted with what change must know:
Now back the life comes where as once it grew. 

Can pleasing sight misfortune ever bring?
Can firm desire a painful torment try?
Can winning eyes prove to the heart a sting?
Or can sweet lips in treason hidden lie?
The Sun most pleasing blinds the strongest eye
If too much look'd on breaking the sight's string
Desires still crossed must unto mischief hye
And as despair a luckless chance may fling.
Eyes having won rejecting proves a sting
Killing the bud before the tree doth spring
Sweet lips not loving do as poison prove:
Desire sight Eyes lips seek see prove and find
You love may win but curses if unkind
Then show you harm's dislike and joy in Love.

Deign at my hands this crown of prayer and praise
Weav'd in my low devout melancholy
Thou which of good hast yea art treasury
All changing unchanged Ancient of days
But do not with a vile crown of frail bays
Reward my muse's white sincerity
But what thy thorny crown gained that give me
A crown of Glory which doth flower always
The ends crown our works but thou crown'st our ends
For at our end begins our endlesse rest
The first last end now zealously possest
With a strong sober thirst my soul attends.
'Tis time that heart and voice be lifted high
Salvation to all that will is nigh. 

Salvation to all that will is nigh
That All which always is All everywhere
Which cannot sin and yet all sins must bear
Which cannot die yet cannot choose but die
Loe faithful Virgin yields himself to lie
In prison in thy womb
and though he there
Can take no sin nor thou give yet he'will wear
Taken from thence flesh which death's force may try.
Ere by the spheres time was created thou
Wast in his mind who is thy Son and Brother
Whom thou conceiv'st conceiv'd
yea thou art now
Thy maker's maker and thy Father's mother
Thou hast light in dark
and shutst in little room
Immensity cloistered in thy dear womb. 

Immensity cloistered in thy dear womb
Now leaves his welbelov'd imprisonment
There he hath made himself to his intent
Weak enough now into our world to come
But Oh for thee for him hath th'Inne no roome?
Yet lay him in this stall and from the Orient
Stars and wisemen will travel to prevent
Th'effect of Herod's jealous general doom
Seest thou my Soul with thy faith's eyes how he
Which fills all place yet none holds him doth lie?
Was not his pity towards thee wondrous high
That would have need to be pitied by thee?
Kiss him and with him into Egypt goe
With his kind mother who partakes thy woe. 

With his kind mother who partakes thy woe
Joseph turn back
see where your child doth sit
Blowing yea blowing out those sparks of wit
Which himself on the Doctors did bestow
The Word but lately could not speake and loe
It suddenly speaks wonders whence comes it
That all which was and all which should be writ
A shallow seeming child should deeply know?
His Godhead was not soul to his manhood
Nor had time mellow'd him to this ripenesse
But as for one which hath a long task 'tis good
With the Sunne to begin his businesse
He in His age's morning thus began
By miracles exceeding power of man. 

By miracles exceeding power of man
He faith in some envy in some begat
For what weake spirits admire ambitious hate:
In both affections many to him ran
But Oh! the worst are most they will and can
Alas and do unto the immaculate
Whose creature Fate is now prescribe a Fate
Measuring selfe-life's infinity to a span
Nay to an inch. Loe where condemned he
Bears his own cross with pain yet by and by
When it bears him he must bear more and die
Now thou art lifted up draw me to thee
And at thy death giving such liberal dole
Moist with one drop of thy blood my dry soule.

Moist with one drop of thy blood my dry soule
Shall (though she now be in extreme degree
Too stony hard and yet too fleshly) be
Freed by that drop from being starved hard or foul
And life by this death abled shall control
Death whom thy death slew
nor shall to me
Fear of first or last death bring misery
If in thy little book my name thou enroll
Flesh in that long sleep is not putrified
But made that there of which and for which 'twas
Nor can by other means be glorified.
May then sins sleep and deaths soon from me pass
That waked from both I again risen may
Salute the last and everlasting day. 

Salute the last and everlasting day
Joy at the uprising of this Sunne and Sonne
Ye whose just tears or tribulation
Have purely washed or burnt your drossy clay
Behold the Highest parting hence away
Lightens the dark clouds which he treads upon
Nor doth he by ascending show alone
But first he and he first enters the way.
O strong Ram which hast battered heaven for me
Mild lamb which with thy blood hast marked the path
Bright Torch which shin'st that I the way may see
Oh with thy own blood quench thy own just wrath.
And if the holy Spirit my Muse did raise
Deign at my hands this crown of prayer and praise. 

Thou hast made me and shall thy work decay?
Repair me now for now mine end doth haste
I run to death and death meets me as fast
And all my pleasures are like yesterday
I dare not move my dim eyes any way
Despair behind and death before doth cast
Such terror and my feeble flesh doth waste
By sin in it which it t'wards hell doth weigh
Only thou art above and when towards thee
By thy leave I can look I rise again
But our old subtle foe so tempteth me
That not one hour my self I can sustain
Thy Grace may wing me to prevent his art
And thou like Adamant draw mine iron heart.

As due by many titles I resign
My self to Thee O God
first I was made
By Thee and for Thee and when I was decayed
Thy blood bought that the which before was Thine
I am Thy son made with Thy Self to shine
Thy servant whose pains Thou hast still repaid
Thy sheep thine image and till I betrayed
My self a temple of Thy Spirit divine
Why doth the devil then usurp on me?
Why doth he steal nay ravish that's thy right?
Except thou rise and for thine own work fight
Oh I shall soon despair when I do see
That thou lov'st mankind well yet wilt not choose me
And Satan hates me yet is loth to lose me. 

O might those sighs and tears return again
Into my breast and eyes which I have spent
That I might in this holy discontent
Mourn with some fruit as I have mourned in vain
In mine Idolatry what showers of rain
Mine eyes did waste! what griefs my heart did rent!
That sufferance was my sin
now I repent
'Cause I did suffer I must suffer pain.
Th' hydropic drunkard and night-scouting thief
The itchy lecher and self-tickling proud
Have the remembrance of past joys for relief
Of comming ills. To (poor) me is allowed
No ease
for long yet vehement grief hath been
Th' effect and cause the punishment and sin.

Oh my black soul! now art thou summoned
By sickness death's herald and champion
Thou art like a pilgrim which abroad hath done
Treason and durst not turn to whence he is fled
Or like a thief which till death's doom be read
Wisheth himself delivered from prison
But damned and haled to execution
Wisheth that still he might be imprisoned.
Yet grace if thou repent thou canst not lack
But who shall give thee that grace to begin?
Oh make thy self with holy mourning black
And red with blushing as thou art with sin
Or wash thee in Christ's blood which hath this might
That being red it dyes red souls to white. 

At the round earth's imagined corners blow
Your trumpets Angels and arise arise
From death you numberless infinities
Of souls and to your scattered bodies go
All whom the flood did and fire shall o'erthrow
All whom war dearth age agues tyrannies
Despair law chance hath slain and you whose eyes
Shall behold God and never taste death's woe.
But let them sleep Lord and me mourn a space
For if above all these my sins abound
'Tis late to ask abundance of thy grace
When we are there
here on this lowly ground
Teach me how to repent
for that's as good
As if thou hadst seal'd my pardon with thy blood. 

If faithful souls be alike glorified
As angels then my father's soul doth see
And adds this even to full felicity
That valiantly I hell's wide mouth o'erstride:
But if our minds to these souls be descried
By circumstances and by signs that be
Apparent in us not immediately
How shall my mind's white truth by them be tried?
They see idolatrous lovers weep and mourn
And vile blasphemous conjurers to call
On Jesus name and Pharisaical
Dissemblers feigne devotion. Then turn
O pensive soul to God for he knows best
Thy true grief for he put it in my breast.

Death be not proud though some have called thee
Mighty and dreadful for thou art not so
For those whom thou think'st thou dost overthrow
Die not poor death nor yet canst thou kill me.
From rest and sleep which but thy pictures be
Much pleasure then from thee much more must flow
And soonest our best men with thee do go
Rest of their bones and soul's delivery.
Thou art slave to Fate Chance kings and desperate men
And dost with poison war and sickness dwell
And poppy or charms can make us sleep as well
And better than thy stroke
why swell'st thou then?
One short sleep past we wake eternally
And death shall be no more
death thou shalt die. 

Spit in my face you Jews and pierce my side
Buffet and scoff scourge and crucify me
For I have sinned and sinned and only he
Who could do no iniquity hath died:
But by my death can not be satisfied
My sins which pass the Jews' impiety:
They killed once an inglorious man but I
Crucify him daily being now glorified.
Oh let me then his strange love still admire:
Kings pardon but he bore our punishment.
And Jacob came clothed in vile harsh attire
But to supplant and with gainful intent:
God clothed himself in vile man's flesh that so
He might be weak enough to suffer woe.

Why are we by all creatures waited on?
Why do the prodigal elements supply
Life and food to me being more pure than I
Simple and further from corruption?
Why brook'st thou ignorant horse subjection?
Why dost thou bull and bore so seelily
Dissemble weakness and by one man's stroke die
Whose whole kind you might swallow and feed upon?
Weaker I am woe is me and worse than you
You have not sinned nor need be timorous.
But wonder at a greater wonder for to us
Created nature doth these things subdue
But their Creator whom sin nor nature tied
For us His creatures and His foes hath died.

What if this present were the world's last night?
Mark in my heart O soul where thou dost dwell
The picture of Christ crucified and tell
Whether that countenance can thee affright
Tears in his eyes quench the amazing light
Blood fills his frowns which from his pierced head fell.
And can that tongue adjudge thee unto hell
Which prayed forgiveness for his foes' fierce spite?
No no
but as in my idolatry
I said to all my profane mistresses
Beauty of pity foulness only is
A sign of rigour: so I say to thee
To wicked spirits are horrid shapes assigned
This beauteous form assures a piteous mind. 

Batter my heart three-person'd God
for you
As yet but knock breathe shine and seek to mend
That I may rise and stand o'erthrow me and bend
Your force to break blow burn and make me new.
I like an usurpt town to another due
Labour to admit you but Oh to no end
Reason your viceroy in me me should defend
But is captiv'd and proves weak or untrue.
Yet dearly I love you and would be loved fain
But am betroth'd unto your enemy:
Divorce me untie or break that knot again
Take me to you imprison me for I
Except you enthrall me never shall be free
Nor ever chaste except you ravish me.

Wilt thou love God as he thee? Then digest
My soul this wholesome meditation
How God the Spirit by angels waited on
In heaven doth make his Temple in thy breast.
The Father having begot a Son most blest
And still begetting (for he ne'er be gone)
Hath deigned to choose thee by adoption
Co-heir t' his glory and Sabbath' endless rest.
And as a robbed man which by search doth find
His stol'n stuff sold must lose or buy 't again:
The Son of glory came down and was slain
Us whom he'd made and Satan stol'n to unbind.
'Twas much that man was made like God before
But that God should be made like man much more. 

Father part of his double interest
Unto thy kingdom thy Son gives to me
His jointure in the knotty Trinity
He keeps and gives to me his death's conquest.
This Lamb whose death with life the world hath blest
Was from the world's beginning slain and he
Hath made two Wills which with the Legacy
Of his and thy kingdom do thy Sons invest.
Yet such are thy laws that men argue yet
Whether a man those statutes can fulfil
None doth
but all-healing grace and spirit
Revive again what law and letter kill.
Thy law's abridgement and thy last command
Is all but love
Oh let this last Will stand!

Oh to vex me contraries meet in one:
Inconstancy unnaturally hath begot
A constant habit
that when I would not
I change in vows and in devotion.
As humorous is my contrition
As my profane love and as soon forgot:
As riddlingly distempered cold and hot
As praying as mute
as infinite as none.
I durst not view heaven yesterday
and today
In prayers and flattering speeches I court God:
Tomorrow I quake with true fear of his rod.
So my devout fits come and go away
Like a fantastic ague
save that here

My footsteps press where centuries ago
The Red Men fought and conquered
lost and won.
Whole tribes and races gone like last year's snow
Have found the Eternal Hunting-Grounds and run
The fiery gauntlet of their active days
Till few are left to tell the mournful tale:
And these inspire us with such wild amaze
They seem like spectres passing down a vale
Steeped in uncertain moonlight on their way
Towards some bourn where darkness blinds the day
And night is wrapped in mystery profound.
We cannot lift the mantle of the past:
We seem to wander over hallowed ground:
We scan the trail of Thought but all is overcast.

There was a time--and that is all we know!
No record lives of their ensanguined deeds:
The past seems palsied with some giant blow
And grows the more obscure on what it feeds.
A rotted fragment of a human leaf
A few stray skulls: a heap of human bones!
These are the records--the traditions brief--
'Twere easier far to read the speechless stones.
The fierce Ojibwas with tornado force
Striking white terror to the hearts of braves!
The mighty Hurons rolling on their course
Compact and steady as the ocean waves!
The stately Chippewas a warrior host!
Who were they?--Whence?--And why? no human tongue can boast.

There is no sadness here. Oh that my heart
Were calm and peaceful as these dreamy groves!
That all my hopes and passions and deep loves
Could sit in such an atmosphere of peace
Where no unholy impulses would start
Responsive to the throes that never cease
To keep my spirit in such wild unrest.
'Tis only in the struggling human breast
That the true sorrow lives. Our fruitful joys
Have stony kernels hidden in their core.
Life in a myriad phases passeth here
And death as various--an equal poise
Yet all is but a solemn change--no more
And not a sound save joy pervades the atmosphere.

Mounting his stairs of azure and of gold
The English lark sings in the August weather
For joy which knoweth neither tie nor tether
And is not troubled if the world grows old
While you who were as blithesome and as bold
And held your life lightly as any feather
Sleep the high sleep that dead men sleep together
Careless of what is done and what is told.
I know that all England shone before you
When you went down. It made a radiance
Even of the front of death. Oh woman's son
You died for England. . . valiant as she that bore you
And sent you forth with a still countenance
And broke her heart for England and lives on!

These are the fights of Love and Joy and Men
With Fate and Death and the illicit Beast
For guerdons of which Glory is the least
And Honour not the highest. The old reign
Of Night shall topple the old Wrongs be slain:
Fitting it is that you go to the Feast
While ange suns kindle the young-eyed east
And bring the breath of Eden back again.
Oh soldiers' hour! . . . For now the English rose
Flames and is washed with the authentic dew
And through the mist her ancient crimson shows:
I see your shadows on the waking lawn
Like shadows of kings and all the souls of you
Blazoned and bright and panoplied in the dawn. 

He goeth and he returns not. He is dead.
Their house of joy no further brightness shows
Their loveliness is come unto its close
Their last touch given and their last kindness said
For him no more the vision of her bent head
For her no more the lily or the rose
Nor any gladness in this place of woes
The book is shut the bitter lesson read.
Yet who shall beat them down? Though the Abhorred
Taketh the groom and to the bride hath sent
The dagger of anguish with the ice-cold hilt
Both of them triumph in a strange content--
And out of souls like these will heavens be built
And holy cities peopled for the Lord. 

Along the English lanes a budding green
Upon the English orchards pink and white
And over them the rapture and delight
Of April sunshine! Fair and fresh and clean
Washen as if in wells of hyaline
And very wondrous to the pilgrim sight
A glad new land of all things soft and bright--
Oh surely here an angel must have been
And left his blessing! . . . Dead young son of ours
Who didst so proudly taste the loving-cup
Whose blood but now shone like a living rose
Dropped by the Lord upon the Flanders snows
What country shall they give you to be yours
For this the England you have given up? 

He is gone hence. Weep no weak tears for him:
You gave us freely what you valued most
It is not loss for gifts are never lost
Unto the giver. Lo the star-kept dim
Limits where battle fades away and grim
Death halts and hath no power! On that coast
His feet are set among the shining host
Who range with cherubim and seraphim.
A thousand suns are unregarded dust
A million dawns break and are counted not
And Beauty riseth up and she departs
Eternally--eternally forgot
But your fair stripling dead beside his trust
Is safely folded in the Heart of Hearts. 

The enemy without--and he within!
You meet him on the stairs of your high tower
All simpers. At his nose he hath a flower
Upon his tongue cheap honey
and his chin
Waggeth for ever. If we lose or win--
Please don't talk war! The witty luncheon hour
The joyous week-end! Good souls who could sour
So blithe a spirit or prick so sleek a skin?
Cheerfullest wight! It is his constant whim
To beam on Fate. All that he asks is love
A salad a glass of wine music that charms
A book a friend and "the blue sky above"--
And underneath the everlasting arms
Of them that toil and groan and bleed for him.

I have a widow'd mother to whom I cleave
With a devouring passion. My sole care
And joy she is. "What money I can spare"
Is hers--when she can get it. If I leave
Upon your urgent errand she will grieve
(Poor soul) and find no comfort anywhere--
Beauty draws some men my a single hair
But me--I'm all for mother please believe.
A boy's best friend's his mother without a doubt
And a most excellent mother have I got:
'Tis true the other day she said "You go--
I'll struggle through!" I murmured "Certainly not!"--
Sharp like and firm. . . Dear heart she'll never know
How much I've loved her--since the war broke out! 

In me behold the trusty stay and prop
Of Mr. Cheesemonger. He calls me Sam
I mix his eggs and cut his "splendid" ham
And clean his windows and sweep up his shop
And drive his pony till it's fit to drop
And help his customers into the tram--
I'm indispensable I am I am
And if I went the business would go flop.
Kind Mr. C. remarks "A pretty thing
To want my right-hand man--and like their cheek!
Now who comes first your Country and your King
Or me?" Of course I answered "You do sir!"
He raised my screw to eighteen bob a week
And claims exempton for a "manager." 

And I--ah mine's a bitter case indeed
You call me slacker coward what you will--
I have a patent duty to fulfil
By my white soul whose promptings I must heed:
It's not my fault if heroes choose to bleed
Blood I abhor and no man's blood I'll spill
My conscience simply will not let me kill--
The Sixth Commandment's plain for all to read.
Clearly who fights is either wicked or mad
And rage and malice are the spawn of hell
No quarrel have I with Germans or with Turks:
I'm single--yes! Profession? I used to sell
Cats' meat before the war
but times being bad
I've taken a job at a munition works.

Who summons back forgotten banished names?
Whose magic voice bids buried cities rise?
Who opes again the gates of paradise
Where gleaming sword of guardian angel flames?
Who fires the generous heart with godlike aims?
Who leads the way were Fame's high temple lies?
Who fills the soul with hope which never dies?
Who rouses courage while he passion tames?
The poet he whose words are living things
Who walks the earth clothed with creative might
Who touches life's most hidden secret springs
And out of darkness brings the flood of light
Who speaks and souls receive the dower of wings
And upward mount to the aerial height.

Shall we believe the heavens less divine
Because earth moves and the great sun is still?
Or is the world less fair because mere thrill
Of ether gives the stars the power to shine?
Shall diamonds with less lustre fair necks twine
Since we have found how Nature's cunning skill
Black carbon's heart with light has known to fill
Kindling a lamp in darkness of deep mine?
Not so to poet's eye shall it appear
Whose wonder grows with knowledge keeping pace
Who to all truth lends an impartial ear
And behind law still sees God's hidden grace
Like a dim milky way when night is clear
And all the stars look on the young moon's face.

Wailing diminutive of me be still
Or cry but spare me that regretful tone
Of sorrows elemental waxing shrill
O you of living things the most alone!
Son do you thus reproach me and make moan
Because upon Love's chariot I did fly
And a horn winded in the great unknown
Calling your atoms out to be an I?
Should I have let you in abeyance lie
Disintegrate another million years?
Then use your life to teach you how to die
And pass again beyond the reach of tears
Some day you may regret I dragged you thence
Perhaps forgive the vast impertinence.

When through the dark damp mists of tedious night
Sweet lucid tints announce the cheerful day
Gay beats the enthusiast heart that hails the ray
Illuminating scenes of new delight.
When the long dreary reign of Winter past
The landscape brightens and the wild flowers bloom
When every gale wafts music and perfume
Rich is the fancy's treasure sweet the soul's repast.
Such in the circle where Felicia shines
Are Friendship's feelings on her blest return
Friendship--who for her loss no more repines
But bids each anxious bosom cease to mourn.
To hail Felicia is our sweet employ
And every sense and every heart is joy. 

Fourteen a sonneteer thy praises sings
What magic myst'ries in that number lie!
Your hen hath fourteen eggs beneath her wings
That fourteen chickens to the roost may fly.
Fourteen full pounds the jockey's stone must be
His age fourteen--a horse's prime is past.
Fourteen long hours too oft the Bard must fast
Fourteen bright bumpers--bliss he ne'er must see!
Before fourteen a dozen yields the strife
Before fourteen--e'en thirteen's strength is vain.
Fourteen good years--a woman gives us life
Fourteen good men--we lose that life again.
What lucubrations can be more upon it?
Fourteen good measur'd verses make a sonnet.

Her maiden dreams were redolent of love
Warm-bosomed as she breathed the passionate air
Of old romance and did in fancy move
'Mong the gay knights who died for ladies fair
Until she heard the thunder of the press
And so became a lover
her heart rang
The note of love's alarm his tenderness
When in the onset all the tourney sang.
And she was one of the dead ladies who
In beauty's blazon to his misty bower
With Launcelot when the Queen was gone withdrew
Under the shadow of the tourney tower
And lilting to him through the gloaming made
His heart a lyre whereon her passion played. 

She was so dear so fair. Her memory stays
Even her dying robs me not of this
That I have walked with her in mortal ways
Whose tender beauty now immortal is.
There are sweet flowers that bloom in ways forlorn
And sad sweet eyes whose beauty is a flower
Blown in the night to which there is no morn
Dream-born and dying in its dewy bower
And she was such a flower her sweet eyes such
The secret hours that only the heart knows
Thrill with the glamour of her tone and touch
Like music that is sweetest at the close
Falling to death as falls the fairest thing
Beyond the power of love's recovering.

Time grows upon us until we exhaust
Hope's possibilities and then we die
Who thus of life each make a holocaust
Till all we have in nature is put by.
No one survives himself and none can so
Reclaim the sentiment of youth that he
Would like a fallen leaf re-budded grow
On the bare bough of joy's mortality.
Oh! in what charms may death himself reveal
When the life-instinct turns at last to him
For supreme succour for the power to heal
That sickness of our days when all grows dim!
More fragrant then than roses sweeter far
The airs that come from the old darkness are.

There is a breath at midnight that comes in
Sad as a sigh for then the day is dead
And the young morrow doth his course begin
Sowing new dreams in many a dreamer's head.
And there are two have waked in one dark bed
Just as the last stroke fades in lonely air
And having whispered half-awake have sped
With silent feet into sleep's poppied lair.
She with the morning wakes but he is gone
Her tears and kisses are of no avail--
Perchance it was his good-bye murmured on
The midnight in death's visionary dale.
Ah woe! she thought 'twas in sleep's fairyland
When in the dark he pressed her warm soft hand. 

Young beautiful and learned Jane intent
On knowledge found it peace
her vast acquirement
Of goodness was her fall
she was content
With dulcet pleasures such as calm retirement
Yields to the wise alone
--her only vice
Was virtue: in obedience to her sire
And lord she died with them a sacrifice
To their ambition: her own mild desire
Was rather to be happy than be great
For though at their request she claimed the crown
That they through her might rise to rule the state
Yet the bright diadem and gorgeous throne
She viewed as cares dimming the dignity
Of her unsullied mind and pure benignity.

Ah me dread friends of mine--Love Time and Death!
Sweet Love who came to me on sheeny wing
And gave her to my arms--her lips her breath
And all her golden ringlets clustering:
And Time who gathers in the flying years--
He gave me all but where is all he gave?
He took my Love and left me barren tears--
Weary and lone I follow to the grave.
There Death will end this vision half-divine--
Wan Death who waits in shadow evermore
And silent ere he give the sudden sign
O gently lead me thro' thy narrow door
Thou gentle Death thou trustiest friend of mine
--Ah me for Love. . . will Death my Love restore?

In the dim chamber whence but yesterday
Passed my belovd filled with awe I stand
And haunting Loves fluttering on every hand
Whisper her praises who is far away.
A thousand delicate fancies glance and play
On every object which her robes have fanned
And tenderest thoughts and hopes bloom and expand
In the sweet memory of her beauty's ray.
Ah! Could that glass but hold the faintest trace
Of all the loveliness once mirrored there
The clustering glory of the shadowy hair
That framed so well the dear young angel-face!
But no it shows my own face full of care
And my heart is her beauty's dwelling-place.

Even thus methinks a city reared should be
Yea an imperial city that might hold
Five times an hundred noble towns in fee
And either with their might of Babel old
Or the rich Roman pomp of empery
Might stand compare highest in arts enrolled
Highest in arms
brave tenement for the free
Who never crouch to thrones or sin for gold.
Thus should her towers be raised--with vicinage
Of clear bold hills that curve her very streets
As if to vindicate 'mid choicest seats
Of art abiding Nature's majesty
And the broad sea beyond in calm or rage
Chainless alike and teaching Liberty.

The Keeper of the Concord Light is dead
And gone its shining way to Paradise
From that Snug Harbor of the soul he spies
A beacon-glory round his memory shed
By waves that bring to hungry mortals bread
Once cast upon the waters by the wise
Kind hand that kept the Light. His startled eyes
Gleam heavenly joy then fill with modest dread
And turn to greet the friends of other days
Who lead him to his castles late of Spain
Within whose halls resound his unsung lays:
The while a busy world beneath the wain
That plucks a star from Concord's peaceful ways
In reverence pauses at a new-made fane.

When Avon's Bard his sweetest music scored
A woman's vision with the numbers blent
Each to the other equal beauty lent
As weaving fancy robed the form adored.
O Poet didst thou see upon the board
Eye-filling Rosalind whose playful bent
Suffused thy lines? Juliet all passion-spent?
Viola's sweet self and Imogen's restored?
'Twas thine to give the music-mated lines
But Heaven alone empowers the counterpart
To walk in splendor where such genius shines.
Thrice happy we blest heirs of dual art
To own as mother-tongue Will Shakespeare's writ
To live when kindling Neilson voices it.

There is a splendid tropic flower which flings
Its fiery disc wide open to the core--
One pulse of subtlest fragrance--once a life
That rounds a century of blossoming things
And dies a flower's apotheosis: nevermore
To send up in the sunshine in sweet strife
With all the winds a fountain of life flame
A winged censer in the starlight swung
Once only flinging all its wealth abroad
To the wide deserts without shore or name
And dying like a lovely song once sung
By some dead poet music's wandering ghost
ons ago blown out of life and lost
Remembered only in the heart of God.

How happy he who by fine cultured art
Plies him a line upon a silvery stream--
Takes him therefrom a newly ventured theme
And fair to speak hath change of mind and heart!
Whose gentle wrist shall to a fly impart
Semblance to living--being so shall seem
To the brook eyes nor fancy nor a dream--
And so beguile by crafty counterpart!
He shall of faith in ample store be given
Wedlock to peace--the hand of darling joy
Sunshinest mood--the cleansing spirit of heaven
And so betimes due gracefulness employ.
For him the gods shall favor and repay
Make life and death all one a golden day!

Him did High Virtue perfectly endow
Clean-wrought for living--Nature's gifted sage
Uncoverer of Beauty on Time's gilded page
Fine Priest of streams of leaf and drooping bough
Keeper of gladness Faith's own solemn vow--
Eschewing Gain and Competition's rage
Measuring Life by Heaven's wiser gauge
And breathing hope and blessedness enow!
Oh I have been much in delight to think
How well his days were chosen to be spent.
And by the pools of Stafford 'proached the brink
Of Paradise--and comfortably lent
Him to sweet Themes of chaste divinity
Kind songs of hope on skyward wings set free!

The sonnet is a diamond flashing round
From every facet true rare coloured lights
A gem of thought carved in poetic nights
To grace the brow of art by fancy crowned
A miniature of soul wherein are found
Marvels of beauty and resplendent sights
A drop of blood with which a lover writes
His heart's sad epitaph in its own bound
A pearl gained from dark waters when the deep
Rocked in its frenzied passion
the last note
Heard from a heaven-saluting skylark's throat
A cascade small flung in a canyon steep
With crystal music. At this shrine of song
High priests of poesy have worshipped long. 

There is a playwright older than the years
Who maketh all men actors in his play
And though they know not what they do or say
The purpose of the plot in all appears.
Each in his turn beset with inborn fears
Enters unseen youth's comedy so gay
Laughs through the hours that glide too soon away
Beneath the clouds of soul-consuming tears.
Then manhood's tragedy with perils fraught
Pursues its fickle fortunes to the end
When Fate the villain of the piece doth send
By whom the last exciting scene is wrought
A timely stab from Death's sure-falling knife
Brings down the curtain o'er the play of life.

Vine tendrils drooping in the midday sun
Take me to Greece ere Sappho sang those lays
Whose echoes falling down this length of days
Trance us with beauty sweet and halcyon
Satyrs green-garlanded skip madly on
Through woody wilds loud shouts of ribald praise
Mingle with merry laughter and amaze
The peaceful shepherds who affrighted run
Fair dryads swell the riot-filling song
From every tree-trunk and from each pure spring
Sweet naiad voices rise with silvery ring
To welcome him who leads the dancing throng
Old Bacchus! reeling 'neath the weight of wine
Chanting a stave half drunken half divine.
The world is charged with the grandeur of God.

It will flame out like shining ftorn shook foil
It gathers to a greatness like the ooze of oil
Crushed. Why do men then now not reck his rod?
Generations have trod have trod have trod
And all is seared with trade
bleared smeared with toil
And wears man's smudge and shares man's smell: the soil
Is bare now nor can foot feel being shod.
And for all this nature is never spent
There lives the dearest freshness deep down things
And though the last lights off the black West went
Oh morning at the brown brink eastward springs--
Because the Holy Ghost over the bent
World broods with warm breast and with ah! bright wings.

Nothing is so beautiful as spring--
When weeds in wheels shoot long and lovely and lush
Thrush's eggs look little low heavens and thrush
Through the echoing timber does so rinse and wring
The ear it strikes like lightnings to hear him sing
The glassy peartree leaves and blooms they brush
The descending blue
that blue is all in a rush
With richness
the racing lambs too have fair their fling.
What is all this juice and all this joy?
A strain of the earth's sweet being in the beginning
In Eden garden.--Have get before it cloy
Before it cloud Christ lord and sour with sinning
Innocent mind and Mayday in girl and boy
Most O maid's child thy choice and worthy the winning.

They trod the streets and squares where now I tread
With weary hearts a little while ago
When thin and grey the melancholy snow
Clung to the leafless branches overhead
Or when the smoke-veiled sky grew stormy-red
In autumn
with a re-arisen woe
Wrestled what time the passionate spring winds blow
And paced scorched stones in summer:--they are dead.
The sorrow of their souls to them did seem
As real as mine to me as permanent.
To-day it is the shadow of a dream
The half-forgotten breath of breezes spent.
So shall another soothe his woe supreme--
"No more he comes who this way came and went."

Two terrors fright my soul by night and day:
The first is Life and with her come the years 
A weary winding train of maidens they
With forward-fronting eyes too sad for tears
Upon whose kindred faces blank and grey
The shadow of a kindred woe appears.
Death is the second terror
who shall say
What form beneath the shrouding mantle nears?
Which way she turn my soul finds no relief
My smitten soul may not be comforted 
Alternately she swings from grief to grief
And poised between them sways from dread to dread.
For there she dreads because she knows 
and here
Because she knows not only faints with fear.

Back to the mystic shore beyond the main
The mystic craft has sped and left no trace.
Ah nevermore may she behold his face
Nor touch his hand nor hear his voice again!
With hidden front she crouches
all in vain
The proffered balm. A vessel nears the place 
They bring her young lost brother
see her strain
The new-found nurseling in a close embrace.
God we have lost Thee with much questioning.
In vain we seek Thy trace by sea and land
And in Thine empty fanes where no men sing.
What shall we do through all the weary days ?
Thus wail we and lament. Our eyes we raise
And lo our Brother with an outstretched hand! 

Now is the perfect moment of the year.
Half naked branches half a mist of green
Vivid and delicate the slopes appear 
The cool soft air is neither fierce nor keen
And in the temperate sun we feel no fear 
Of all the hours which shall be and have been
It is the briefest as it is most dear
It is the dearest as the shortest seen.
O it was best belovd at the first.--
Our hands met gently and our meeting sight
Was steady
on our senses scarce had burst
The faint fresh fragrance of the new delight...
I seek that clime unknown without a name
Where first and best and last shall be the same. 

Most wonderful and strange it seems that I
Who but a little time ago was tost
High on the waves of passion and of pain
With aching heart and wildly throbbing brain
Who peered into the darkness deeming vain
All things there found if but One thing were lost
Thus calm and still and silent here should lie
Watching and waiting--waiting passively.
The dark has faded and before mine eyes
Have long grey flats expanded dim and bare 
And through the changing guises all things wear
Inevitable Law I recognise :
Yet in my heart a hint of feeling lies
Which half a hope and half is a despair.

The sonnet is mechanical in part
And part ideal. The cube root of song
Conceive your thought then build the verse along
In true Petrarchan style. With rhythmic art
To all the fourteen lines a grace impart.
Ten-syllable the verse the rhymes be strong
Within the octave only two belong
And in the sestet three. And here the heart
Of all the sonnet lies. Concentred fast
Your thought developed through each separate line
Here breaks the bounds and struggles to be free
Through hampering bars of rhyme
and when the last
Is reached away it soars--abreath divine--
In charmd flight towards immortality.

I sometimes muse when my adventurous gaze
Has roamed the starry arches of the night
That were I dowered with strong angelic sight
All would look changed in those pale heavenly ways.
What wheeling worlds my vision would amaze!
What chasms of gloom would thrill me and affright!
What rhythmic equipoise would rouse delight!
What moons would beam on me what suns would blaze!
Then through my awed soul sweeps the larger thought
Of how creation's edict may have set
Vast human multitudes on those far spheres
With towering passions to which mine mean naught
With majesties of happiness or yet
With agonies of unconjectured tears! 

A giant of awful strength he dumbly lies
Far-prisoned among the solemn deeps of earth
The sinewy grandeurs of his captive girth--
His great-thewed breast colossally-moulded thighs
And arms thick-roped with muscle of mighty size
Repose in slumber where no dream gives birth
For months even years to any grief or mirth
A slumber of tranquil lips calm-lidded eyes!
Yet sometimes to his spirit a dream will creep
Of the old glad past when clothed in dauntless pride
He walked the world unchained by tyrannous powers
And then while he tosses restlessly in sleep
Dark terrible graves for living shapes yawn wide
Or a city shrieks among her tottering towers!

Dulled to a drowsy fire one hardly sees
The sun in heaven where this broad smoky round
Lies ever brooding at the horizon's bound
And through the gaunt knolls on monotonous leas
Or through the damp wood's troops of naked trees
Rustling the brittle ruin along their ground
Like sighs from souls of perished hours resound
The melancholy melodies of the breeze!
So ghostly and strange a look the blurred world wears
Viewed from the flowerless garden's dreary squares
That now while these weird vaporous days exist
It would not seem a marvel if where we walk
We met dim-glimmering on its thorny stalk
Some pale intangible rose with leaves of mist!

What footstep but has wandered free and far
Amid that Castle of Sleep whose walls were planned
By no terrestrial craft no human hand
With towers that point to no recorded star?
Here sorrows memories and remorses are
Roaming the long dim rooms or galleries grand
Here the lost friends our spirits yet demand
Gleam through mysterious door-ways left ajar.
But of the uncounted throngs that ever win
The halls where Slumber's dusky witcheries rule
Who after wakening may reveal aright
By what phantasmal means he entered in?--
What porch of cloud what vapory vestibule
What stairway quarried from the mines of night? 

Strange that in your dark-dappled sanguine flower
The sculpturesque repose can still endure
Of that celestial lily wrought so pure
It lives as chastity's white type this hour!
By what mysterious art what baleful power
Did you Diana of all blooms allure
From Nature's mood this Maenad vestiture
And mock with gaudy tints your taintless dower?
Nay long ago I dream through some warm dell
Of Asian lands a weary tiger stole
Where you in pale bud felt your first dews cling
And while he slept beneath you it befell
That all his deadly beauty pierced your soul
And made you this fantastic sultry thing! 

All search of yours but ineffectual seems
To gain some coign of refuge year by year
Since far in loneliest woods in wastes austere
Winds call beasts wander or yet the vulture screams.
With hated sounds of life all nature teems
And even among the deeps of sleep you hear
Voices now clad in distance or now clear
That float forever from the lips of dreams!
But weary of spirit and affrighted too
At last you hurry away with footsteps fleet
To find in chaos torpor and eclipse
Death your one lover inalienably true
Encircled by whose ghostly arms you meet
The awful icy passion of his lips! 

Invisible as a wind along the sky
She ever wanders o'er the earth immense
A spirit of beauty but malevolence
With foot unechoing and with furtive eye.
She loathes and shuns all haunts where peace may lie
Or love and every joy engendered thence
Yet prowls to wait with wary and avid sense
For sorrow's heaviest and most burning sigh!
Then when some dreary sufferer darkly fails
To find in life's chill heaven one starry trace
One hope no menace of despair assails
Toward him she steals with sure insidious pace
And slowly to his desperate look unveils
The maddening glooms and splendours of her face! 

Seeing thy face with all thy fluctuant hair
Falling in dull-gold opulence from thy brow
Watching thy light-blue eyes now fired or now
Laughterful or now dim as with despair
I wonder friend that it should be God's care
To have made at all what matter when or how
A being so sadly desolately rare
So beautifully incomplete as thou!
O rank black pool with one star's imaged form!
O sweet rich-hearted rose with rot at core!
O summer heaven half purpled by stern storm!
O lily with one white leaf dipt in gore!
O angel-shape whereover curves and clings
The awful imminence of a devil's wings!

Troubled in spirit at the unvaried ways
Wherewith perpetually I seemed to view
In regular and familiar retinue
Coming and going the processional days
I yearned to mark with many a novel phase
This round of dull monotonies that I knew
And treat life's commonplaces dreary of hue
As phantoms that the intellect sternly lays!
But wheresoe'er my wandering feet might be
Like some persistent word that memory saith
Or like a ship's own shadow on wastes of sea
Or the very wind's inevitable breath
I found among all changes following me
The dark ubiquitous commonplace of death!

A yellow sunset soft and dreamy of dye
Met sharply by black fluctuant lines of grass
A river glimmering like illumined glass
And narrowing till it ends in distant sky
Pale scattered pools of luminous rain that lie
In shadowy amplitudes of green morass
A crescent that the old moon as moments pass
Has turned to a silver acorn hung on high!
Now through this melancholy and silent land
Sleep walks diaphanous-vestured vaguely fair
Within her vaporous robe and one dim hand
Much asphodel and lotus doth she bear
Going lovely and low-lidded with a band
Of dull-red poppies amid her dull-gold hair! 

In evil hour did Pope's declining age
Deceived and dazzled by the tinsel show
Of wordy science and the nauseous flow
Of mean officious flatteries engage
Thy venal quill to deck his laboured page
With ribald nonsense and permit to strew
Amidst his flowers the baleful weeds that grow
In the unblessed soil of rude and rancorous rage.
Yet this the avenging muse ordaind so
When by his counsel or weak sufferance
To thee were trusted Shakespeare's fame and fate:
She doomed him down the stream of time to tow
Thy foul dirt-loaded hulk or sink perchance
Dragged to oblivion by the foundering weight.

O born in luckless hour with every muse
And every grace to foe! what wayward fate
Drives thee with fell and unrelenting hate
Each choicest work of genius to abuse?
Sufficed it not with sacrilegious views
Great Shakespeare's awful shade to violate:
And his fair Paradise contaminate
Whom impious Lauder blushes to accuse?
Must Pope thy friend mistaken hapless bard!
(To prove no sprig of laurel ever can grow
Unblasted by thy venom) must he groan
Now daubed with flattery now by censure scarred
Disguised deformed and made the public show
In motley weeds and colours not his own? 

O master of the heart whose magic skill
The close recesses of the soul can find
Can rouse becalm and terrify the mind
Now melt with pity now with anguish thrill
Thy moral page while virtuous precepts fill
Warm from the heart to mend the age designed
Wit strength truth decency all conjoined
To lead our youth to good and guard from ill:
O long enjoy what thou so well hast won--
The grateful tribute of each honest heart
Sincere nor hackneyed in the ways of men
At each distressful stroke their true tears run
And nature unsophisticate by art
Owns and applauds the labours of thy pen. 

Prelate whose steady hand and watchful eye
The sacred vessel of religion guide
Secure from superstition's dangerous tide
And fateful rocks of infidelity
Think not in this bad age of obloquy
When Christian virtues Christians dare deride
And worth by party zeal alone is tried
To escape the poisoned shafts of calumny
No--though the tenor of thy blameless life
Like His whose flock is to thy care consigned
Be spent in teaching truth and doing good
Yet amongst the sons of bigotry and strife
Thou too like Him must hear thy good maligned
Thy person slandered and thy truths withstood.

Capricious wray a sonnet needs must have
I ne'er was so put to 't before--a sonnet!
Why fourteen verses must be spent upon it:
"Tis good howe'er t' have conquered the first stave.
Yet I shall ne'er find rhymes enough by half"
Said I and found myself i' the midst o' the second.
If twice four verses were but fairly reckoned
I shall turn back on th' hardest part and laugh.
Thus far with good success I think I've scribbled
And of the twice seven lines have clean got o'er ten
Courage! another'll finish the first triplet.
Thanks to thee muse my work begins to shorten.
There's thirteen lines got through driblet by driblet
'Tis done! count how you will I warr'nt there's fourteen.

WHEN we are dead I firmly do believe
We shall slip back into the primal sea
Of the universal life that there shall be
No such false joys as on this earth deceive
--Nay nor no truer ones--nor cause to grieve
Nor terror nor despite nor mockery
Nor love life's strongest bitterest mystery
And while we still are struggling in the strife
Surely it is a gracious boon though small
That one brief sweet real joy at least there is
To be about to die and know that all
The anguish and the agony of life
Will not last longer than a lover's kiss.

IF thou canst not from some superior sphere
Look down upon this world that gave thee birth
Or from some glad abode of stingless mirth
Bend hitherward thy godbright head to hear
Some rainbow-winged etherial messenger
Tell thee men worship now thy wondrous worth
If thou art not having passed away from earth
If thou whose name all sons of song revere
Art nothing but the shadow of a name
If through the whole allotted period
Of thy brief life thou were allowed to dwell
In endless bitter ignorance of thy fame
Then must we yield it that there is no God
Or else that he is crueller than hell. 

ALL too grotesque our thoughts are sometimes. Odd
That there will come a day when you and I
Shall not be you and I! that we shall lie--
We two--i' the damp earth-mould--above each clod
A drunken headstone in the neglected sod--
Thereon the phrase "Hic Jacet" carved awry
And then our virtues Bah! and piety--
Perhaps some cheeky reference to God!
And haply after many a century
Some spectacled old man shall drive the birds
A moment from their song i' the lonely spot
And make a copy of the quaint old words--
They will then be quaint and old--and all for what?
To fill a gap in a genealogy. 

I SOMETIMES long to throw my books away
And to forget the thoughts that make me sad--
The mighty musings that have ever clad
The minds of men in chill and sombre grey.
I sometimes long to laugh out and be gay
As some blithe thoughtless merry-hearted lad
Or wander in the forest and be glad
Without a memory of a heavier day
Yet when I try to turn myself apart
From all the deeper mysteries of Life
In nature-love and hate of human strife
Still the same thoughts throng through my throbbing brain
And I arise in heaviness of heart
And turn me to my studying again. 

IT stood upon the hill like some old chief
And held communion with the cryptic wind
Keeping like some dim unforgotten grief
The memory of the tribesmen autumn-skinned
Silent and slow as clouds whose footing passed
Down the remote trails of oblivion
Long since into the caverns of the past.
Alone aloof strong fellow of the sun
We chose it for our standard in its prime
Nor--though no longer grimly from its hill
It fronts the world like Webster--wind nor time
Has felled its austere ghost we see it still
In alien lands resurgent and undying
Flag of our hearts from sudden ramparts flying. 

MOURN we who honored him but knew him not
Grieve ye who loved him looking on his face
Be mindful Dartmouth of each strenuous trace
That keeps his loyal record unforgot.
There is no faithlessness in grief God wot
However high the hope or clear the gaze
There must be tears at every burial-place
Though through the tears the very sky be shot.
For death is like the passing of a star
That melts into the splendor of the dawn.
Were we beyond the air that blurs our sight
In the clear ether where the angels are
We should behold it still
but now withdrawn
In sunrise lose it looking on the light. 

"LOVE is eternal" sang I long ago
Of some light love that lasted for a day
But when the fleeting fancy passed away
And other loves that following made as though
They were the very deathless lost the glow
Youth mimics the divine with and grew gray
I said "It is a dream: no love will stay."
Angels have taught me wisdom. Now I know
Though lesser loves and greater loves may cease
Love still endures knocking at myriad gates
That lead to God--stars winds and waters birds
Beasts flowers and men--speaking its sweetest words
At woman's portal till it finds its peace
In the abyss where Godhead loves and waits.

As one of those huge monsters of the sky
Fierce with the flame of fiery floating hair
Falls from the zenith through the upper air
Hurling the planets from their paths on high
Jarring creation from its harmony
Spreading on earth destruction and despair
Terrifying men to the temples and vain prayer
So from the summit of his majesty
He fails and heaven is shaken as flame
Zeus reigns
Usurping
and no matter what is left--
How smooth or tangled grows his god-life's weft--
With how swift footing or how slow the years
Speed on for him forever there remains
A thunder and a chaos in the spheres. 

POET! thou art to me a faery king
Dwelling in some weird place of witchery
Some garden where unnumbered roses vie
In color with the hollyhocks that spring
On every side in scarlet wantoning
And lilies'neath the gaudier herbage lie
And violets unclose their leaves near by
While stately sunflowers guard each opening.
And in that garden-realm magnificent
I often see thee walking-stopping now
To list to hollow murmurs now to scent
Some flower's subtle perfume wherein pent
A rich rare pleasance lies that none but thou
And thy strange fellow-bard the wind can know.

Oft too I see thee on the rocky shore
Worshipping all the infinitely strong
Grand godhead that to ocean doth belong
Or prostrate with uncovered head before
The sun whom even Ocean doth adore
Who giveth speech to every poet's tongue
Who is the only king and god of song
From whom all bards receive their secret lore.
For thou art brother of the elements
There is a spirit of kinship that compels
Your feet to stray in paths where nothing dwells
Save the triune power that knows not death nor birth
But sways all nature in omnipotence--
Sea wind and sun the gods who rule the earth.

I also standing where the white caps seem
In inextinguishable laughter on the shore
Forever tumbling and where glancing o'er
The sandy beach the sun-god's arrows gleam
Bright as the swords of Eden's cherubim
Here on this coast mind-seen of bards of your
Atlantis the lost world now found once more
This land whereof the Hellene did dream--
I cast this sea-shell into the great sea
And all the old Greek spirit in me prays
To great Poseidon whom we both adore
To cast it up upon the other shore
Where it may meet thine Apollonian gaze
And murmur sweetlier being seen of thee.

Just tinged with sorrow enough to welcome in
With heartier joy all wassail that gives birth
To bliss that lifts the spirit from the earth!
Shall not this book and the signatures herein
Of men whose friendship I am glad to win
Years hence recall this time that knows no dearth
Of ready jests and sunshine of sweet lays
And vintages of Xeres and the Rhine?
Ah! the remembrance of these happy days
The music and the laughter and the wit
The cups that smile with glimmering of sweet wine
Age shall grow mellow with the thought of it.

GONE art thou then O mystical musician!
Pure-thoughted singer of these sinful years!
No more shall dreams and doubts and hopes and fears
Pass and repass before thy stricken vision
No more from thine high sorrowing position
Shall fall thy song-irradiated tears
Alas! no more against our listening years
Shall new lays ring from thy lone lute elysian.
For unto thee at last has rest been given
Whether in sleep eternal by the shore
Of Time's wide ocean or in song without
Or break or flaw by the gold bar of that heaven
From which the Blessed Damozel leaned out
Sighing for thee in the sad days of yore. 

AH! where the hot wind with sweet odors laden
Against the roses faintly beats his wings
Uttering mild melodious murmurings
To the faint flowers and the fluttering gladen
Whispering of some far sunset-bowered Aidenn
And in an orange tree an oriole sings
Whereunder lies dreaming of unknown things
With orange blossoms wreathed a radiant maiden--
There is the poet's land
there would I lie
Beneath the shadows of magnolia trees
And let my eyes grow languid and my mouth
Glow with the kisses of the amorous breeze
And breathe with every breath the luxury
Of the hot-cheeked sweet heavy-lidded South.

So thou art come again old black-winged night
Like an huge bird between us and the sun
Hiding with out-stretched form the genial light
And still beneath thine icy bosom's dun
And cloudy plumage hatching fog-breathed blight
And embryo storms and crabbd frosts that shun
Day's warm caress. The owls from ivied loop
Are shrieking homage as thou towerest high
Like sable crow pausing in eager stoop
On the dim world thou gluttest thy clouded eye
Silently waiting latest time's fell whoop
When thou shalt quit thine eyrie in the sky
To pounce upon the world with eager claw
And tomb time death and substance in thy maw.

It is a lovely stream
its wavelets purl
As if they echoed to the fall and rise
Of the capricious breeze
each upward curl
That splashes pearl mirrors the fairy eyes
Of viewless passer and the billows hurl
Their sparkles on her lap as over she flies.
And see where onward whirls within a ring
Of smoothest dimples a dark foxglove bell
Half stifled by the gush encircling
Perchance some tiny sprite crawled to that shell
To sleep away the noon and winds did swing
Him into rest
for the warm sun was well
Shaded off by the long and silky down
So I will save it lest the elf should drown. 

Snowdrop of dogs with ear of brownest dye
Like the last orphan leaf of naked tree
Which shudders in bleak autumn
though by thee
Of hearing careless and untutored eye
Not understood articulate speech of men
Nor marked the artificial mind of books--
The mortal's voice eternized by the pen--
Yet hast thou thought and language all unknown
To Babel's scholars
oft intensest looks
Long scrutiny over some dark-veined stone
Dost thou bestow learning dead mysteries
Of the world's birthday oft in eager tone
With quick-tailed fellows bandiest prompt replies
Solicitudes canine four-footed amities.

Wing'd mimic of the woods! thou motley fool!
Who shall thy gay buffoonery describe?
Thine ever ready notes of ridicule
Pursue thy fellows still with jest and gibe.
Wit sophist songster Yorick of thy tribe
Thou sportive satirist of Nature's school
To thee the palm of scoffing we ascribe
Arch-mocker and mad Abbot of Misrule!
For such thou art by day--but all night long
Thou pour'st a soft sweet pensive solemn strain
As if thou didst in this thy moonlight song
Like to the melancholy Jacques complain
Musing on falsehood folly vice and wrong
And sighing for thy motley coat again. 

Time winnows beauty with a fiery wind
Driving the dead chaff from the living grain.
Some day there will be golden sheaves to bind
There will be wonder in the world again.
There will be lonely phrases born to power
There will be words immortal and profound
Though no man knows the coming of the hour
And no man knows the sower or the ground.
It may be even now the ranging earth
Lifting to glory some forgotten land
Feels there deep beauty quickening to birth
Sprung from the sowing of a hidden hand.
Beauty endures though towering empires die.
O speed the blown chaff down the smoking sky! 

Swift through some trap mine eyes have never found
Dim-panelled in the painted scene of sleep
Thou giant Harlequin of Dreams dost leap
Upon my spirits stage. Then Sight and Sound
Then Space and Time then Language Mete and Bound
And all familiar Forms that firmly keep
Mans reason in the road change faces peep
Betwixt the legs and mock the daily round.
Yet thou canst more than mock: sometimes my tears
At midnight break through bounden lids--a sign
Thou hast a heart: and oft thy little leaven
Of dream-taught wisdom works me bettered years.
In one night witch saint trickster fool divine
I think thourt Jester at the Court of Heaven. 

Across the brook of Time man leaping goes
On stepping-stones of epochs that uprise
Fixed memorable midst broad shallow flows
Of neutrals kill-times sleeps indifferencies.
So mixt each morn and night rise salient heaps:
Some cross with but a zig-zag jaded pace
From meal to meal: some with convulsive leaps
Shake the green tussocks of malign disgrace:
And some advance by system and deep art
Oer vantages of wealth place learning tact:
But thou within thyself dear manifold heart
Dost bind all epochs in one dainty Fact.
Oh sweet my pretty sum of history
I leapt the breadth of Time in loving thee! 

The storm that snapped our fates one ship in twain
Hath blown my half o the wreck from thine apart.
O Love! O Love! across the gray-waved main
To thee-ward strain my eyes my arms my heart.
I ask my God if een in His sweet place
Where by one waving of a wistful wing
My soul could straightway tremble face to face
With thee with thee across the stellar ring--
Yea where thine absence I could neer bewail
Longer than lasts that little blank of bliss
When lips draw back with recent pressure pale
To round and redden for another kiss--
Would not my lonesome heart still sigh for thee
What time that drear kiss-intervals must be?

So do the mottled formulas of Sense
Glide snakewise through our dreams of Aftertime
So errors breed in reeds and grasses dense
That bank our singing rivulets of rhyme.
By Sense rule Space and Time but in Gods land
Their intervals are not save such as lie
Betwixt successive tones in concords bland
Whose loving distance makes the harmony.
Ah there shall never come twixt me and thee
Gross dissonances of the mile the year
But in the multichords of ecstasy
Our souls shall mingle yet be featured clear
And absence wrought to intervals divine
Shall part yet link thy natures tone in mine.

Look down the shining peaks of all my days
Base-hidden in the valleys of deep night
So shalt thou see the heights and depths of praise
My love would render unto loves delight
For I would make each day an Alp sublime
Of passionate snow white-hot yet icy clear
--One crystal of the true-loves of all time
Spiring the worlds prismatic atmosphere
And I would make each night an awful vale
Deep as thy soul obscure as modesty
With every star in heaven trembling pale
Oer sweet profounds where only Love can see.
Oh runs not thus the lesson thou hast taught?
When lifes all love tis life: aught else tis naught.

Let no man say He at his ladys feet
Lays worship that to Heaven alone belongs
Yea swings the incense that for God is meet
In flippant censers of light lovers songs.
Who says it knows not God nor love nor thee
For love is large as is yon heavenly dome:
In loves great blue each passion is full free
To fly his favourite flight and build his home.
Did eer a lark with sky-ward pointing beak
Stab by mischance a level-flying dove?
Wife-love flies level his dear mate to seek:
God-love darts straight into the skies above.
Crossing the windage of each others wings
But speeds them both upon their journeyings. 

Now at thy soft recalling voice I rise
Where thought is lord oer Times complete estate
Like as a dove from out the gray sedge flies
To tree-tops green where coos his heavenly mate.
From these clear coverts high and cool I see
How every time with every time is knit
And each to all is mortised cunningly
And none is sole or whole yet all are fit.
Thus if this Age but as a comma show
Twixt weightier clauses of large-worded years
My calmer soul scorns not the mark: I know
This crooked point Times complex sentence clears.
Yet more I learn while Friend! I sit by thee
Who sees all time sees all eternity.

By the more height of thy sweet stature grown
Twice-eyed with thy gray vision set in mine
I ken far lands to wifeless men unknown
I compass stars for one-sexed eyes too fine.
No text on sea-horizons cloudily writ
No maxim vaguely starred in fields or skies
But this wise thou-in-me deciphers it:
Oh thourt the Height of heights the Eye of eyes.
Not hardest fortunes most unbounded stress
Can bind my soul nor hurl it from on high
Possessing thee the self of loftiness
And very light that sight discovers by.
Howeer thou turnst wrong Earth! still Loves in sight
For we are taller than the breadth of night.

Mistress behold in this true-speaking glass
Thy beauty's graces of all women rarest
Where thou mayst find how largely they surpass
And stain in glorious loveliness the fairest.
But read sweet mistress and behold it nearer
Pond'ring my sorrow's outrage with some pity
Then shalt thou find no worldly creature dearer
Than thou to me thyself in each love ditty.
But in this mirror equally compare
Thy matchless beauty with mine endless grief
There like thyself none can be found so fair
Of chiefest pains there are my pains the chief.
Betwixt these both this one doubt shalt thou find:
Whether are here extremest in their kind. 

Ah sweet Content where is thy mild abode?
Is it with shepherds and light-hearted swains?
Which sing upon the downs and pipe abroad
Tending their flocks and cattle on the plains?
Ah sweet Content where dost thou safely rest?
In heaven with angels which the praises sing
Of him that made and rules at his behest
The minds and hearts of every living thing?
Ah sweet Content where doth thine harbour hold?
Is it in churches with religious men
Which please the gods with prayers manifold
And in their studies meditate it then?-
Whether thou dost in heaven or earth appear
Be where thou wilt thou wilt not harbour here. 

Burn on sweet fire for I live by that fuel
Whose smoke is as an incense to my soul.
Each sigh prolongs my smart. Be fierce and cruel
My fair Parthenophe. Frown and control
Vex torture scald disgrace me. Do thy will!
Stop up thine ears
with flint immure thine heart
And kill me with thy looks if they would kill.
Thine eyes those crystal phials which impart
The perfect balm to my dead-wounded breast
Thine eyes the quivers whence those darts were drawn
Which me to thy love's bondage have addressed
Thy smile and frown night-star and daylight's dawn
Burn on frown on vex stop thine ears torment me!
More for thy beauty borne would not repent me.

This careful head with divers thoughts distressed
My fancy's chronicler my sorrow's muse
These watchful eyes whose heedless aim I curse
Love's sentinels and fountains of unrest
This tongue still trembling herald fit addressed
To my love's grief (than any torment worse)
This heart true fortress of my spotless love
And rageous furnace of my long desire:
Of these by nature am I not possessed
Though nature their first means in me did move.
But thou dear sweet with thy love's holy fire
My head grief's anvil made with cares oppressed
Mine eyes a spring
my tongue a leaf wind-shaken
My heart a wasteful wilderness forsaken.

No more lewd lays of lighter loves I sing
Nor teach my lustful muse abused to fly
With sparrows' plumes and for compassion cry
To mortal beauties which no succor bring.
But my muse feathered with an angel's wing
Divinely mounts aloft unto the sky
Where her love's subjects with my hopes do lie.
For Cupid's darts prefigurate hell's sting
His quenchless torch foreshows hell's quenchless fire
Kindling men's wits with lustful lays of sin
Thy wounds my cure dear Savior! I desire
To pierce my thoughts thy fiery cherubin
By kindling my desires true zeal t'infuse
Thy love my theme and Holy Ghost my muse! 

Fortress of hope anchor of faithful zeal
Rock of affiance bulwark of sure trust
In whom all nations for salvation must
Put certain confidence of their souls' weal:
Those sacred mysteries dear Lord reveal
Of that large volume righteous and just.
From me though blinded with this earthly dust
Do not those gracious mysteries conceal
That I by them as from some beamsome lamp
May find the bright and right direction
To my soul blinded marching to that camp
Of sacred soldiers whose protection
He that victorious on a white horse rideth
Taketh and evermore triumphant guideth. 

A blast of wind a momentary breath
A wat'ry bubble symbolized with air
A sun-blown rose but for a season fair
A ghostly glance a skeleton of death
A morning dew pearling the grass beneath
Whose moisture sun's appearance doth impair
A lightning glimpse a muse of thought and care
A planet's shot a shade which followeth
A voice which vanisheth so soon as heard
The thriftless heir of time a rolling wave
A show no more in action than regard
A mass of dust world's momentary slave
Is man in state of our old Adam made
Soon born to die soon flourishing to fade.

Our love is not a fading earthly flower:
Its wingd seed dropped down from Paradise
And nursed by day and night by sun and shower
Doth momently to fresher beauty rise.
To us the leafless autumn is not bare
Nor winter's rattling boughs lack lusty green:
Our summer hearts make summer's fulness where
No leaf or bud or blossom may be seen:
For nature's life in love's deep life doth lie
Love--whose forgetfulness is beauty's death
Whose mystic key these cells of Thou and I
Into the infinite freedom openeth
And makes the body's dark and narrow grate
The wide-flung leaves of Heaven's palace-gate.

I thought our love at full but I did err
Joy's wreath drooped o'er mine eyes
I could not see
That sorrow in our happy world must be
Love's deepest spokesman and interpreter.
But as a mother feels her child first stir
Under her heart so felt I instantly
Deep in my soul another bond to thee
Thrill with that life we saw depart from her.
O mother of our angel-child! twice dear!
Death knits as well as parts and still I wis
Her tender radiance shall enfold us here
Even as the light borne up by inward bliss
Threads the void glooms of space without a fear
To print on farthest stars her pitying kiss. 

They pass me by like shadows crowds on crowds
Dim ghosts of men that hover to and fro
Hugging their bodies round them like thin shrouds
Wherein their souls were buried long ago:
They trampled on their youth and faith and love
They cast their hope of human-kind away
With Heaven's clear messages they madly strove
And conquered--and their spirits turned to clay.
Lo! how they wander round the world their grave
Whose ever-gaping maw by such is fed
Gibbering at living men and idly rave
"We only truly live but ye are dead."
Alas! poor fools the anointed eye may trace
A dead soul's epitaph in every face! 

The wisest man could ask no more of Fate
Than to be simple modest manly true
Safe from the Many honoured by the Few
To count as naught in World or Church or State
But inwardly in secret to be great
To feel mysterious Nature ever new
To touch if not to grasp her endless clue
And learn by each discovery how to wait.
He widened knowledge and escaped the praise
He wisely taught because more wise to learn
He toiled for science not to draw men's gaze
But for her lore of self-denial stern.
That such a man could spring from our decay
Fans the soul's nobler faith until it burn. 

True as the sun's own work but more refined
It tells of love behind the artist's eye
Of sweet companionships with earth and sky
And summers stored the sunshine of the mind.
What peace! Sure ere you breathe the fickle wind
Will break its truce and bend that grass-plume high
Scarcely yet quiet from the gilded fly
That flits a more luxurious perch to find.
Thanks for a pleasure that can never pall
A serene moment deftly caught and kept
To make immortal summer on my wall.
Had he who drew such gladness ever wept?
Ask rather could he else have seen at all
Or grown in Nature's mysteries an adept?

As cleansed of Tiber's and Oblivion's slime
Glow Farnesina's vaults with shapes again
That dreamed some exiled artist from his pain
Back to his Athens and the Muse's clime
So these world-orphaned waifs of Want and Crime
Purged by Art's absolution from the stain
Of the polluting city-flood regain
Ideal grace secure from taint of time.
An Attic frieze you give a pictured song
For as with words the poet paints for you
The happy pencil at its labour sings
Stealing his privilege nor does him wrong
Beneath the false discovering the true
And Beauty's best in unregarded things. 

Go you O winds that blow from north to south
Convey my secret sighs unto my sweet
Deliver them from mine unto her mouth
And make my commendations till we meet.
But if perhaps her proud aspiring sprite
Will not accept nor yet receive the same
The breast and bulwark of her bosom beat
Knock at her heart and tell from whence you came
Importune her nor cease nor shrink for shame.
Sport with her curls of amber-colored hair
And when she sighs immix yourselves with thame
Give her her own and thus beguile the fair.
Blow winds fly sighs whereas my heart doth haunt
And secretly commend me to my saunt.

Now while amid those dainty downs and dales
With shepherd swains I sit unknown to me
We sweetly sing and tell pastoral tales
But my discourse and song's theme is of thee.
For otherways alas how can it be?
Let Venus leave her blest abode above
To tempt my love yet thou sweet soul shalt see
That I thy man and thou shalt die my love.
No tract of time nor sad eclipse of place
Nor absence long which sometime were due cures
To my disease shall make thy slave to cease
From serving thee till life or breath endures
And till we meet my rustic mates and I
Through woods and plains Pandora's praise shall cry.

Where should the Poet's house and household be?
Beneath what skies in what untroubled air
Sings he for very joy of songs so fair
That in their steadfast laws he most is free?
In woods remote where darkly tree on tree
Let fall their curtained shadows to ensnare
His dreams or hid in Fancy's happiest lair--
Some laughing island of the stormless sea?
Ah never such to him their welcome gave!
But flattered by the gods in finer scorn
He drifts upon the world's unresting wave
As drifts a sea-flower by the tempest torn
From sheltered porches of the coral cave
Where it expands of calm and silence born.

Absence from thee is something worse than death
For to the heart that slumbers in the shroud
What are the mourners' tears and clamours loud
The open grave the dismal cypress wreath?
The quiet body misses not its breath
The pain that shivers through the weeping crowd
Is idle homage to the visage proud
That changeth not for all Affliction saith.
But to be thus from thee so far away
Is as though I in seeming death might be
Conscious of all that passed about my clay
As though I saw my doleful obsequy
Mourned my own loss rebelled against decay
And felt thy tear-drops trickling over me. 

Once more without you! Sighing dear once more
For all the sweet accustomed ministries
Of wife and mother
not as when the seas
That parted us my tender message bore
From the gray olives of the Cretan shore
To those that hide the broken Phidian frieze
Of our Athenian home--but far degrees
Wide plains great forests part us now. My door
Looks on the rushing Neva cold and clear:
The swelling domes in hovering splendour lie
Like golden bubbles eager to be gone
But the chill crystal of the atmosphere
Withholds them and along the northern sky
The amber midnight smiles in dreams of dawn.

Fair art thou Scotia. The swift mountain stream
Gushes with deafening roar and whitening spray
From thy brown hills
where eagles seek their prey
Or soar undazzled in the solar beam.
But dearer far to me be thou my theme
My native Hampshire! Thy sweet valleys gay
Trees spires and cots that in the brilliant ray
Confusedly glitter like a morning dream.
And thou fair forest! lovely are thy shades
Thy oaks majestic over the billows pale
High spreading their green arms: or the deep glades
Where the dark holly armed in prickly mail
Shelters the yellow fern and tufted blades
That wave responsive to the sighing gale.

As in the bursting springtime over the eye
Of one who haunts the fields fair visions creep
Beneath the closd lids (afore dull sleep
Dims the quick fancy) of sweet flowers that lie
On grassy banks oxlip of orient dye
And palest primrose and blue violet
All in their fresh and dewy beauty set
Pictured within the sense and will not fly
So in mine ear resounds and lives again
One mingled melody--a voice a pair
Of instruments most voice-like! Of the air
Rather than of the earth seems that high strain
A spirit's song and worthy of the train
That soothed old Prospero with music rare. 

I could have lengthened out one fleeting hour
Into an age--sitting at set of sun
Under the long low open shed where won
The mellow evening light through leaf and flower
Playing the hostess in that summer bower
To such dear guests whilst rose the antique song
By those young sister voices poured along
So wild so pure so clear full of sweet power
Ringing and vibrating.
It was a lay
That sent a smile into the very heart:
As when the early lark shoots up in May
With his blithe matins rarer than all art
Save this. O happiest and most fleeting day
Why art thou gone so soon?--Why must we part? 

How oft amid the heaped and bedded hay
Under the oak's broad shadow deep and strong
Have we sat listening to the noon-day song
(If song it were) monotonously gay
Which crept along the field the summer lay
Of the grasshopper. Summer is come in pride
Of fruit and flower garlanded as a bride
And crowned with corn and graced with length of day:
But cold is come with her.
We sit not now
Listening that merry music of the earth
Like Arid beneath the blossomed bough
But all for chillness round the social hearth
We cluster.--Hark! a sound of kindred mirth
Echoes! O wintry cricket welcome thou! 

Sleep on my mother! sweet and innocent dreams
Attend thee best and dearest! Dreams that gild
Life's clouds like setting suns with pleasures filled
And saintly joy such as thy mind beseems
Thy mind where never stormy passion gleams
Where their soft nest the dove-like virtues build
And calmest thoughts like violets distilled
Their fragrance mingle with bright wisdom's beams.
Sleep on my mother! not the lily's bell
So sweet
not the enamoured west-wind's sighs
That shake the dew-drop from her snowy cell
So gentle
not that dew-drop ere it flies
So pure. Even slumber loves with thee to dwell
O model most beloved of good and wise.

Wild child of genius with his witching lyre
Dreamer of dreams of rarest fantasy
Upon the earth he flashed with meteor fire
And in his wake rolled waves of melody
Seraphic songs as if from heaven's choir
With elfin music weird and mystical
Bewitching notes that golden thoughts inspire
Angelic strains divinely musical.
All praise be his on this his natal day
May all his faults and frailties be forgot
Lay laurels on his tomb and honours pay
Think only of the glory that he wrought.
Hail! sister nation for thy great son's sake
A kindred soul to Keats and Burns and Blake.

O Time! who know'st a lenient hand to lay
Softest on sorrow's wound and slowly thence
Lulling to sad repose the weary sense
The faint pang stealest unperceived away
On thee I rest my only hope at last
And think when thou hast dried the bitter tear
That flows in vain o'er all my soul held dear
I may look back on every sorrow past
And meet life's peaceful evening with a smile
As some lone bird at day's departing hour
Sings in the sunbeam of the transient shower
Forgetful though its wings are wet the while:
Yet ah! how much must that poor heart endure
Which hopes from thee and thee alone a cure!

Beautiful landscape! I could look on thee
For hours--unmindful of the storm and strife
And mingled murmurs of tumultuous life.
Here all is still as fair--the stream the tree
The wood the sunshine on the bank: no tear
No thought of time's swift wing or closing night
Which comes to steal away the long sweet light
No sighs of sad humanity are here.
Here is no tint of mortal change--the day
Beneath whose light the dog and peasant-boy
Gambol with look and almost bark of joy--
Still seems though centuries have passed to stay.
Then gaze again that shadowed scenes may teach
Lessons of peace and love beyond all speech. 

Go then and join the murmuring city's throng!
Me thou dost leave to solitude and tears
To busy phantasies and boding fears
Lest ill betide thee
but 't will not be long
Ere the hard season shall be past
till then
Live happy
sometimes the forsaken shade
Remembering and these trees now left to fade
Nor mid the busy scenes and hum of men
Wilt thou my cares forget: in heaviness
To me the hours shall roll weary and slow
Till mournful autumn past and all the snow
Of winter pale the glad hour I shall bless
That shall restore thee from the crowd again
To the green hamlet on the peaceful plain. 

Fallen pile! I ask not what has been thy fate
But when the winds slow wafted from the main
Through each rent arch like spirits that complain
Come hollow to my ear I meditate
On this world's passing pageant and the lot
Of those who once majestic in their prime
Stood smiling at decay till bowed by time
Or injury their early boast forgot
They may have fallen like thee! Pale and forlorn
Their brow besprent with thin hairs white as snow
They lift still unsubdued as they would scorn
This short-lived scene of vanity and woe
Whilst on their sad looks smilingly they bear
The trace of creeping age and the pale hue of care! 

How sweet the tuneful bells' responsive peal!
As when at opening dawn the fragrant breeze
Touches the trembling sense of pale disease
So piercing to my heart their force I feel.
And hark! with lessening cadence now they fall
And now along the white and level tide
They fling their melancholy music wide
Bidding me many a tender thought recall
Of summer days and those delightful years
When by my native streams in life's fair prime
The mournful magic of their mingling chime
First waked my wondering childhood into tears!
But seeming now when all those days are o'er
The sounds of joy once heard and heard no more.

Milton our noblest poet in the grace
Of youth in those fair eyes and clustering hair
That brow untouched by one faint line of care
To mar its openness we seem to trace
The front of the first lord of the human race
Mid thine own Paradise portrayed so fair
Ere Sin or Sorrow scathed it: such the air
That characters thy youth. Shall time efface
These lineaments as crowding cares assail!
It is the lot of fallen humanity.
What boots it! armed in adamantine mail
The unconquerable mind and genius high
Right onward hold their way through weal and woe
Or whether life's brief lot be high or low!

And art thou he now "fallen on evil days"
And changed indeed! Yet what do this sunk cheek
These thinner locks and that calm forehead speak!
A spirit reckless of man's blame or praise--
A spirit when thine eyes to the noon's blaze
Their dark orbs roll in vain in suffering meek
As in the sight of God intent to seek
Mid solitude or age or through the ways
Of hard adversity the approving look
Of its great Master
whilst the conscious pride
Of wisdom patient and content to brook
All ills to that sole Master's task applied
Shall show before high heaven the unaltered mind
Milton though thou art poor and old and blind!

It was morn and beauteous on the mountain's brow
(Hung with the clusters of the bending vine)
Shone in the early light when on the Rhine
We bounded and the white waves round the prow
In murmurs parted
--varying as we go
Lo! the woods open and the rocks retire
As some grey convent-wall or glistening spire
Mid the bright landscape's track unfolding slow!
Here dark with furrowed aspect like despair
Frowns the bleak cliff! There on the woodland's side
The shadowy sunshine pours its gleaming tide
Whilst hope enchanted with the scene so fair
Counts not the hours of a long summer's day
Nor heeds how fast the prospect winds away.

O stay harmonious and sweet sounds that die
In the long vaultings of this ancient fane!
Stay for I may not hear on earth again
Those pious airs--that glorious harmony
Lifting the soul to brighter orbs on high
Worlds without sin or sorrow! Ah the strain
Has died--even the last sounds that lingeringly
Hung on the roof ere they expired!
Stand in the world of strife amidst a throng
A throng that reckons not of death or sin!
Oh jarring scenes! to cease indeed ere long
The worm hears not the discord and the din
But he whose heart thrills to this angel song
Feels the pure joy of heaven on earth begin!

Oh for one draught of cooling northern air!
That it might pour its freshness on me now
That it might kiss my cheek and cleave my hair
And part its currents round my fevered brow!
Ocean and sky and earth! a blistering calm
Spread over all! how weary wears the day!
Oh lift the wave and bend the distant palm
Breeze! wheresoe'er thy lagging pinions stray--
Triumphant burst upon the level deep
Rock the fixed hull and swell the clinging sail!
Arouse the opal clouds that o'er us sleep
Sound thy shrill whistle! we will bid thee hail!
Though wrapped in all the storm-clouds of the north
Yet from thy home of ice come forth O breeze come forth!

Speak it no more--no more with words profane
What only for the language of the eye
Is fit--what only can be told thereby!
The heart has tones which words cannot contain
And feelings which to speak is to restrain.
Like scent with scent commixed invisibly
Or rays of neighbour planets in the sky
Inter-confused
or as in some deep strain
Of music heavenly passion is combined
With thought and tone with tone in harmony
Thus be the meeting of our hearts dear love!
The pure communion of mind with mind
Above poor symbols of this earth--above
All that can baulk or cramp--can change or die.

I love you for the grief that lurks within
Your languid spirit and because you wear
Corruption with a vague and childish air
And with your beauty know the depths of sin
Because shame cuts and holds you like a gin
And virtue dies in you slain by despair
Since evil has you tangled in its snare
And triumphs on the soul good cannot win.
I love you since you know remorse and tears
And in your troubled loveliness appears
The spot of ancient crimes that writhe and hiss:
I love you for your hands that calm and bless
The perfume of your sad and slow caress
The avid poison of your subtle kiss. 

Flowers rare and sweet I sent whose delicate white
Should grouping at her corsage interlace
Their purity with her corrupted grace
With the full throat and mouth of my delight.
Evil design! To see the pale flowers slight
The beauty of the worn and powdered face
Mingling their costly virtue with the trace
Of ancient loves that live in time's despite.
How soon they died poor blossoms! at her throat
Ere of the last valse died the last sad note
No more than love of her meant to endure
For all the savour of her lips the spice
Of her frail spirit steeped in cultured vice
Gracefully bad and delicately impure! 

I hate the flower of wood or common field.
I cannot love the primrose nor regret
The death of any shrinking violet
Nor even the cultured garden's banal yield.
The silver lips of lilies virginal
The full deep bosom of the enchanted rose
Please less than flowers glass-hid from frost and snows
For whom an alien heat makes festival.
I love those flowers reared by man's careful art
Of heady scents and colors: strong of heart
Or weak that die beneath the touch of knife
Some rich as sin and some as virtue pale
And some as subtly infamous and frail
As she whose love still eats my soul and life.

The old old wonder of the lengthening days
Is with us once again
the winter's sun
Slow sinking to the west when day is done
Each eve a little longer with us stays
And cheers the snowy landscape with his rays:
Nor do we notice what he has begun
Until a month or more of days have run
When we exclaim: "How long the light delays!"
So let some kindly deed however slight
Be daily done by us that to the waste
Of selfishness some light it may impart
Mayhap not noticed till we feel the night
Is less witihin our souls and broader-spaced
Has grown the cheerful sunshine of the heart.


Yes cross in rest the little snow-white hands
Do you not see the lips so faintly red
With love's last kiss? Their sweetness has not fled
Though now you say her sinless spirit stands
Within the pale of God's bright summer lands.
Gather the soft hair round the dainty head
As in past days. Who says that she is dead
And nevermore will heed the old commands?
To your cold idols cling
I know she sleeps
That her pure soul is not by vexed winds tost
Along the pathless altitudes of space.
This life but sows the seed from which one reaps
The future's harvest. No I have not lost
The glory and the gladness of her face. 

Fire in the heavens and fire along the hills
and fire made solid in the flinty stone
thick-massed or scattered pebble fire that fills
the breathless hour that lives in fire alone.
This valley long ago the patient bed
of floods that carved its antient amplitude
in stillness of the Egyptian crypt outspread
endures to drown in noon-day's tyrant mood.
Behind the veil of burning silence bound
vast life's innumerous busy littleness
is hushed in vague-conjectured blur of sound
that dulls the brain with slumbrous weight unless
some dazzling puncture let the stridence throng
in the cicada's torture-point of song.

Vengeance is mine saith the Lord I will repay--
Ay' verily: and by ministry of such men
As did His will upon the Saracen:
And Christendom owns not that man today
Who deems it not the holiest task to slay
So utterly that they rise not again
Yon blatant heathenrie past human ken
Outlawed to death its raving spawn and prey.
And thou has lit one flame of love and wrath
Who all unterrified didst take thy stand
And tear the Beast and baulk him of his spring.
O noble Belgium lion in the path
An inch of sword holding a foot of land
A folk of men showing a man for King! 

Not because beauty is as thin and bright
In you as the white outline of a tree
In winter but because I find delight
In the curved sadness of your lips. (I see
Pleasanter things each day each day recall
Happy faces laughter that knew a way
To spin senses to oblivion.) . . . All
Your words are swift upon your lips and grey
As swallows yet I stay to listen yet
I cannot tear myself away from you:
For in a little while you may forget
Your sadness. O no matter what I do
You may forget your sadness -- O my dear
And even smile and make the mystery clear!

Like an adventurous seafarer am I
Who hath some long and dang'rous voyage been
And called to tell of his discovery
How far he sailed what countries he had seen
Proceeding from the port whence he put forth
Shows by his compass how his course he steered
When east when west when south and when by north
As how the pole to ev'ry place was reared
What capes he doubled of what continent
The gulfs and straits that strangely he had passed
Where most becalmed where with foul weather spent
And on what rocks in peril to be cast:
Thus in my love time calls me to relate
My tedious travels and oft-varying fate.

As other men so I myself do muse
Why in this sort I wrest invention so
And why these giddy metaphors I use
Leaving the path the greater part do go.
I will resolve you: I am lunatic
And ever this in madmen you shall find
What they last thought of when the brain grew sick
In most distraction they keep that in mind.
Thus talking idly in this bedlam fit
Reason and I you must conceive are twain
'Tis nine years now since first I lost my wit
Bear with me then though troubled be my brain.
With diet and correction men distraught
(Not too far past) may to their wits be brought.

To nothing fitter can I thee compare
Than to the son of some rich penny-father
Who having now brought on his end with care
Leaves to his son all he had heaped together
This new-rich novice lavish of his chest
To one man gives doth on another spend
Then here he riots
yet amongst the rest
Haps to lend some to one true honest friend.
Thy gifts thou in obscurity dost waste
False friends thy kindness born but to deceive thee
Thy love that is on the unworthy placed
Time hath thy beauty which with age will leave thee
Only that little which to me was lent
I give thee back when all the rest is spent.

A witless gallant a young wench that wooed
(Yet his dull spirit her not one jot could move)
Entreated me as e'er I wished his good
To write him but one sonnet to his love
When I as fast as e'er my pen could trot
Poured out what first from quick invention came
Nor never stood one word thereof to blot
Much like his wit that was to use the same
But with my verses he his mistress won
Who doted on the dolt beyond all measure.
But see for you to heav'n for phrase I run
And ransack all Apollo's golden treasure
Yet by my froth this fool his love obtains
And I lose you for all my wit and pains. 

Methinks I see some crooked mimic jeer
And tax my muse with this fantastic grace
Turning my papers asks What have we here?
Making withal some filthy antic face.
I fear no censure nor what thou canst say
Nor shall my spirit one jot of vigor lose
Think'st thou my wit shall keep the pack-horse way
That ev'ry dudgeon low invention goes?
Since sonnets thus in bundles are impressed
And ev'ry drudge doth dull our satiate ear
Think'st thou my love shall in those rags be dressed
That ev'ry dowdy ev'ry trull doth wear?
Up to my pitch no common judgment flies
I scorn all earthly dung-bred scarabies.

Our floods' queen Thames for ships and swans is crowned
And stately Severn for her shore is praised
The crystal Trent for fords and fish renowned
And Avon's fame to Albion's cliffs is raised
Carlegion Chester vaunts her holy Dee
York many wonders of her Ouse can tell
The Peak her Dove whose banks so fertile be
And Kent will say her Medway doth excel
Cotswold commends her Isis to the Tame
Our northern borders boast of Tweed's fair flood
Our western parts extol their Wylye's fame
And the old Lea brags of the Danish blood
Arden's sweet Anker let thy glory be
That fair Idea only lives by thee. 

Some misbelieving and profane in love
When I do speak of miracles by thee
May say that thou art flattered by me
Who only write my skill in verse to prove
See miracles ye unbelieving see
A dumb-born muse made to express the mind
A cripple hand to write yet lame by kind
One by thy name the other touching thee
Blind were mine eyes till they were seen of thine
And mine ears deaf by thy fame healed be
My vices cured by virtues sprung from thee
My hopes revived which long in grave had lyne
All unclean thoughts foul spirits cast out in me
Only by virtue that proceeds from thee.

Dear why should you command me to my rest
When now the night doth summon all to sleep?
Methinks this time becometh lovers best:
Night was ordained together friends to keep.
How happy are all other living things
Which though the day disjoin by several flight
The quiet Evening yet together brings
And each returns unto his love at night!
O thou that art so courteous unto all
Why shouldst thou Night abuse me only thus
That every creature to his kind dost call
And yet 'tis thou dost only sever us?
Well could I wish it would be ever day
If when night comes you bid me go away. 

Some men there be which like my method well
And much commend the strangeness of my vein
Some say I have a passing pleasing strain
Some say that in my humor I excel
Some who not kindly relish my conceit
They say as poets do I use to feign
And in bare words paint out my passion's pain.
Thus sundry men their sundry minds repeat.
I pass not I how men affected be
Nor who commends or discommends my verse
It pleaseth me if I my woes rehearse
And in my lines if she my love may see.
Only my comfort still consists in this
Writing her praise I cannot write amiss.

Whilst thus my pen strives to eternize thee
Age rules my lines with wrinkles in my face
Where in the map of all my misery
Is modeled out the world of my disgrace
Whilst in despite of tyrannizing times
Medea-like I make thee young again.
Proudly thou scorn'st my world-outwearing rhymes
And murther'st virtue with thy coy disdain
And though in youth my youth untimely perish
To keep thee from oblivion and the grave
Ensuing ages yet my rhymes shall cherish
Where I entombed my better part shall save
And though this earthly body fade and die
My name shall mount upon eternity.

In pride of wit when high desire of fame
Gave life and courage to my lab'ring pen
And first the sound and virtue of my name
Won grace and credit in the ears of men
With those the thronged theaters that press
I in the circuit for the laurel strove
Where the full praise I freely must confess
In heat of blood a modest mind might move.
With shouts and claps at ev'ry little pause
When the proud round on ev'ry side hath rung
Sadly I sit unmoved with the applause
As though to me it nothing did belong.
No public glory vainly I pursue
All that I seek is to eternize you. 

Since there's no help come let us kiss and part
Nay I have done you get no more of me
And I am glad yea glad with all my heart
That thus so cleanly I myself can free
Shake hands for ever cancel all our vows
And when we meet at any time again
Be it not seen in either of our brows
That we one lot of former love retain.
Now at the last gasp of love's latest breath
When his pulse failing passion speechless lies
When faith is kneeling by his bed of death
And innocence is closing up his eyes
-Now if thou would'st when all have given him over
From death to life thou might'st him yet recover! 

Truce gentle love a parley now I crave
Methinks 'tis long since first these wars begun
Nor thou nor I the better yet can have
Bad is the match where neither party won.
I offer free conditions of fair peace
My heart for hostage that it shall remain
Discharge our forces here let malice cease
So for my pledge thou give me pledge again
Or if no thing but death will serve thy turn
Still thirsting for subversion of my state
Do what thou canst raze massacre and burn
Let the world see the utmost of thy hate
I send defiance since if overthrown
Thou vanquishing the conquest is mine own.

My little chirping fire companion gay
Whose merry gambols make me less alone
A blessing on thy glee! Be ever known
At evening hour when just the dying day
Hath made light sad.--Thou hast a pleasant way
Of muttering low in many a little tone
Quaint syllables--that scarcely from his own
The cricket knows as pausing mid his play.
Sweet is thy precept in that listening hour
Thou seemst to tell me with thy quiet mirth
How good is hope--regret how little worth:--
And perfect is thy love
--if fate but lour
When sharpest frost impends dost merriest burn.
The cold world leaves us--thou with kindlier burn. 

First thoughts are good and second thoughts are good
Those most enrich us these do best advise.
First thoughts are like first love and us surprise
With sudden bliss--till second thoughts intrude
Fraught with wise doubts of much to be eschewed
Not fit
--where yet the greater danger lies
Lest while we doubt the vision from our eyes
Offended pass--thereafter vainly wooed.
First thoughts are mistresses with heat pursued
And mad devotion
--second thoughts are wives
Oft wed in over-prudence and a mood
Most passionless.--He wiseliest contrives
Who adds the judgement while the love survives
For so shall second thoughts first thoughts include.

A power is on the earth and in the air
From which the vital spirit shrinks afraid
And shelters him in nooks of deepest shade
From the hot steam and from the fiery glare.
Look forth upon the earth--her thousand plants
Are smitten
even the dark sun-loving maize
Faints in the field beneath the torrid blaze
The herd beside the shaded fountain pants
For life is driven from all the landscape brown
The bird has sought his tree the snake his den
The trout floats dead in the hot stream and men
Drop by the sun-stroke in the populous town
As if the Day of Fire had dawned and sent
Its deadly breath into the firmament. 

Aye thou art welcome heaven's delicious breath!
When woods begin to wear the crimson leaf
And sons grow meek and the meek suns grow brief
And the year smiles as it draws near its death.
Wind of the sunny south! oh still delay
In the gay woods and in the golden air
Like to a good old age released from care
Journeying in long serenity away.
In such a bright late quiet would that I
Might wear out life like thee 'mid bowers and brooks
And dearer yet the sunshine of kind looks
And music of kind voices ever nigh
And when my last sand twinkled in the glass
Pass silently from men as thou dost pass. 

Yet one smile more departing distant sun!
One mellow smile through the soft vapory air
Ere o'er the frozen earth the loud winds run
Or snows are sifted o'er the meadows bare.
One smile on the brown hills and naked trees
And the dark rocks whose summer wreaths are cast
And the blue gentian-flower that in the breeze
Nods lonely of her beauteous race the last.
Yet a few sunny days in which the bee
Shall murmur by the hedge that skirts the way
The cricket chirp upon the russet lea
And man delight to linger in thy ray.
Yet one rich smile and we will try to bear
The piercing winter frost and winds and darkened air.

Thine eyes shall see the light of distant skies:
Yet Cole! thy heart shall bear to Europe's strand
A living image of thy native land
Such as on thy own glorious canvass lies.
Lone lakes--savannahs where the bison roves--
Rocks rich with summer garlands--solemn streams--
Skies where the desert eagle wheels and screams--
Spring bloom and autumn blaze of boundless groves
Fair scenes shall greet thee where thou goest--fair
But different--every where the trace of men
Paths homes graves ruins from the lowest glen
To where life shrinks from the fierce Alpine air.
Gaze on them till the tears shall dim thy sight
But keep that earlier wilder image bright.

They talk of short-lived pleasure--be it so--
Pain dies as quickly: stern hard-featured pain
Expires and lets her weary prisoner go.
The fiercest agonies have shortest reign
And after dreams of horror comes again
The welcome morning with its rays of peace.
Oblivion softly wiping out the stain
Makes the strong secret pangs of shame to cease:
Remorse is virtue's root
its fair increase
Are fruits of innocence and blessedness:
Thus joy o'erborne and bound doth still release
His young limbs from the chains that round him press.
Weep not that the world changes--did it keep
A stable changeless state 'twere cause indeed to weep. 

Chains may subdue the feeble spirit but thee
Tell of the iron heart! they coiuld not tame!
For thou wert of the mountains
they proclaim
The everlasting creed of liberty--
That creed is written on the untrampled snow
Thundered by torrents which no power can hold
Save that of God when He sends forth His cold
And breathed by winds that through the free heaven blow.
Thou while thy prison-walls were dark around
Didst meditate the lesson Nature taught
And to thy brief captivity was brought
A vision of thy Switzerland unbound.
The bitter cup they mingled strengthened thee
For the great work to set thy country free.

Is this thy Paphos--the devoted place
Where rests in its own eventide thy shrine?
To thee not lone is solitude divine
Where love-dreams o'er thy waves each other chase
And melt into the passion of thy face!
The twilight waters dolphin-stained are thine
The silvery depths and blue night-orbed entwine
And in bright films thy rosy form embrace--
Girdling thy loins with heaven-spun drapery
Wove in the looms of thy resplendent sea.
The columns point their shadows to the plain
And ancient days are dialed o'er again
The floods remember: falling at thy feet
Upon the sands of time they ever beat. 

There shall be beds full of light odours blent
Divans great couches deep profound as tombs
And frown for us in light magnificent
Over the flower-stand there shall droop strange blooms.
Careful of their last flame declining
As two vast torches our two hearts shall flare
And our two spirits in their double shining
Reflect the double lights enchanted there.
One night--A night of mystic blue of rose
A look will pass supreme from me from you
Like a long sob laden with long adieux.
And later on an angel will unclose
The door and entering joyously re-light
The tarnished mirrors and the flames blown to the night. 

Within his eyes are hung lamps of the sanctuary:
A wind from whence none knows can set in sway
And spill their light by fits
but yet their ray
Returns deep-boled to its obscurity.
The world as from a dullard turns annoyed
To stir the days with show or deeds or voices
But if one spies him justly one rejoices
With silence that the careful lips avoid.
He is a plan a work of some strange passion
Life has conceived apart from Time's harsh drill
A thing it hides and cherishes to fashion.
At odd bright moments to its secret will:
Holy and foolish ever set apart
He waits the leisure of his god's free heart.

The lethargy of evil in her eyes--
As blue snow is the substance of a mere
Where the dead waters of a glacier drear
Stand open and behold--a viper lies.
Brooding upon her hatreds: dying thus
Wounded and broken helpless with her fangs
She dies of her sealed curse yea of her pangs
At God's first ban that made her infamous.
Yet by that old curse frozen in her wreath
She like a star hath central gravity
That draws and fascinates the soul to death
While round her stark and terrible repose
Vaults for its hour a glittering sapphire fly
Mocking the charm of death. O God it knows!

He stood behind the counter mixing drinks
Pride for the old who like their liquor tart
Green scorn frapp to cheer the sick-at-heart
False joy as merry as a bed of pinks.
He had the eyes of a sarcastic lynx
And in his apron was a small black dart
With which he stirred secretive and apart
His shaker till it rang with poisonous clinks.
I fumbled for the rail. "The same with gin?
Love -- triple star -- you like the velvet kick?"
I shook with the blind agues of the sick.
Then through lost worlds his voice "Fini old friend?"
He poured black drops out cold as dead men's skin:
"So? This is what we always recommend --"
It must have been for one of us my own
To drink this cup and eat this bitter bread.
Had not my tears upon thy face been shed
Thy tears had dropped on mine
if I alone
Did not walk now thy spirit would have known
My loneliness
and did my feet not tread
This weary path and steep thy feet had bled
For mine and thy mouth had for mine made moan:
And so it comforts me yea not in vain
To think of thine eternity of sleep
To know thine eyes are tearless though mine weep:
And when this cup's last bitterness I drain
One thought shall still its primal sweetness keep--
Thou hadst the peace and I the undying pain.

Is this the sky and this the very earth
I had such pleasure in when I was young?
And can this be the identical sea-song
Heard once within the storm-cloud's awful girth
When a great cloud from silence burst to birth
And winds to whom it seemed I did belong
Made the keen blood in me run swift and strong
With irresistible tempestuous mirth?
Are these the forests loved of old so well
Where on May nights enchanted music was?
Are these the fields of soft delicious grass
These the old hills with secret things to tell?
O my dead youth was this inevitable
That with thy passing Nature too should pass?

Here--where last night she came even she for whom
I would so gladly live or lie down dead
Came in the likeness of a dream and said
Some words that thrilled this desolate ghost-thronged room--
I sit alone now in the absolute gloom.
Ah! surely on her breast was leaned my head
Ah! surely on my mouth her kiss was shed
While all my life broke into scent and bloom.
Give thanks heart for thy rootless flower of bliss
Nor think the gods severe though thus they seem
Though thou hast much to bear and much to miss
Whilst thou thy nights and days to be canst deem
One thing and that thing veritably this--
The imperishable memory of a dream. 

A child with mystic eyes and flowing hair
I saw her first 'mid flowers that shared her grace
Though but a boy I cried "How fair a face!"
And coming nearer told her she was fair.
She faintly smiled yet did not say "Forbear!"
But seemed to take a pleasure in my praise.
She led my steps through many a leafy place
And pointed where shy birds and sweet flowers were.
At length we stood upon a brooklet's brink--
I seem to hear its sources babbling yet--
She gave me water from her hand to drink
The while her eyes upon its flow were set.
"Thy name?" I asked
she whispered low "Regret"
Then faded as the sun began to sink. 

We met again as I foresaw we should
Youth flooded all my veins and she had grown
To woman's height yet seemed a rose half blown.
Like sunset clouds that o'er a landscape brood
Her eyes were that they might not be withstood
And like the wind's voice when it takes the tone
Of pine trees was her voice. I cried "My own!"
And kneeling there I worshipped her and wooed.
O bitter marriage though inevitable
Ordained by fate who wrecks or saves our days!
Lo the changed bride no longer fair of face
And in her eyes the very fires of hell!
"Thy name?" I cried
and these words hissing fell--
"Anguish--and madness comes of my embrace."

What thing may be to come I cannot know.
Her eyes have less of hell in them meanwhile
At times she almost smiles a ghastly smile
I have in all things done her bidding so.
Chill are the rooms wherein no bright fires glow
Where no fair picture does the eye beguile
Once awful laughter shook the gloomy pile
Unholy riotous shapes went to and fro.
There is no sound now in the house at all
Only outside the wind moans on alway.
My Lady Sorrow has no word to say
Seems half content
for well she knows her thrall
Shall not escape from her
that should God call
She would rise with him at the Judgment Day. 

Strike fuller chords or let the music rest!
Of tender songs the world has yet no dearth
Which scarce survive the moment of their birth.
Be thine in passionate cadences expressed
And banish morning-glories from thy breast!
A purple dream-flower of the woods is worth
So little in the gardens of the earth
If gift thou givest give what we love best.
Since Life is wild with tears and red with wrongs
Let these red lilies typify thy songs
If with full flame thou would'st be comforted.
Since Life is red with wrongs and wild with tears
Oh move us haunt us kill our souls with fears
And we will praise thee--after thou art dead!

I walk'd at sunset by the lonely waves
When Autumn stood about me gold and brown
I watch'd the great red sun in clouds go down
An Orient King that 'mid his bronzd slaves
Dies leaning on his sceptre with his crown.
A hollow moaning from innumerous caves
In green and glassy darkness sunk below
Told of some grand and ancient deed of woe
Of murdered kings that sleep in weltering graves.
Still thro' the sunshine wavering to and fro
With sails all set the little vessels glide
Mild is the Eve and mild the ebbing Tide
And yet that hollow moaning will not go
Nor the old Fears that with the Sea abide.

I saw her once--O taunting Destiny!
The paths of life then drew our steps apart
Yet still that swift and softly loosened dart
Lies quiv'ring in my breast and I must be
A gazer on the glass of Memory
A silent watcher o'er my wounded heart--
How oft from dreams of liberty I start
And wake!--alas! the chain still fetters me.
Life gave its sweetest gift--ah! wherefore weep?
A cruel boon perchance
yet in my mind
The cold perfections of her beauty keep
A loveliness that words can never bind--
The seed was sown
and now my thoughts do reap
A harvest where no chaff is left behind.

What not a word for thee O little tome?
Brown-jerkined friendly-faced--of all my books
The one that wears the quaintest kindliest looks--
Seems most completely cosily at home
Amongst its fellows. Ah! if thou couldst tell
Thy story--how in sixteen fifty-three
Good Master Marriot standing at his door
Saw anglers hurrying--fifty--nay threescore
To buy thee ere noon pealed from Dunstan's bell:--
And how he stared and. . . shook his sides with glee.
One story this which fact or fiction weaves.
Meanwhile adorn my shelf beloved of all--
Old book! with lavender between thy leaves
And twenty ballads round thee on the wall.

What though I hear the Aegean billows roar
And eye the deep where Persia's navy rode
What have I left except my native shore?
What have I changed beyond my mere abode?
The fancied future aspirations high
Which reason scarce could quell the upbraiding shame
Of sloth mid busy crowds the weak desire
Of that ideal feverish want a name
No longer tantalize the mental eye
When nought gives food to such tormenting fire.
Yet still the mournful memory of the past
Clouding my spirit throws a deeper gloom
Than even befits the scene a nation's tomb
And that I feel through every clime must last.

Hellas! farewell!--with anxious gaze I view
Lovely in tears and injured as thou art
Thy summits melting in the distant blue
Fade from my eyes but linger in my heart.
Submissive silent victim! dost thou feel
The chains which gall thee? or has lengthened grief
Numbed hate and shame alike with hope and zeal
And brought insensibility's relief?
Awake I adjured by every chief and sage
Thou once couldst boast in many a meaner cause
And let the tame submission of an age
Like nature's hushed and scarcely rustling pause
Ere winds burst forth foretell the approaching storm
When thou shalt grasp the spear and raise thy prostrate form.

Lo! where he crouches by the kloof's dark side
Eyeing the farmer's lowing herds afar
Impatient watching till the evening star
Leads forth the twilight dim that he may glide
Like panther to the prey. With freeborn pride
He scorns the herdsman nor regards the scar
Of recent wound but burnishes for war
His assegai and targe of buffalo hide.
He is a robber? True
it is a strife
Between the black-skinned bandit and the white.
A savage? Yes
though loth to aim at life
Evil for evil fierce he doth requite.
A heathen? Teach him then thy better creed
Christian! if thou deserv'st that name indeed. 

The Bushman sleeps within his black-browed den
In the lone wilderness. Around him lie
His wife and little ones unfearingly--
For they are far away from "Christian-Men."
No herds loud lowing call him down the glen:
He fears no foe but famine
and may try
To wear away the hot noon slumberingly
Then rise to search for roots--and dance again.
But he shall dance no more! His secret lair
Surrounded echoes to the thundering gun
And the wild shriek of anguish and despair!
He dies--yet ere life's ebbing sands are run
Leaves to his sons a curse should they be friends
With the proud "Christian-Men"--for they are fiends! 

Not altogether wicked
but so weak
That greater villains made of him their tool:
Not void of talent
yet so much a fool
As honour by dishonest means to seek:
Proud to the humble
to the haughty meek
In flattery servile
insolent in rule
Keen for his own
for others' interest cool
Hate in his heart
and smiles upon his cheek:--
This man with abject meanness join'd to pride
Was yet a pleasant fellow in his day
For all unseemly traits he well could hide
Whene'er he mingled with the great and gay
But he is buried now--and when he died
No one seemed sorry that he was away. 

Mild melancholy and sedate he stands
Tending another's flock upon the fields
His father's once where now the white man builds
His home and issues forth his proud commands.
His dark eye flashes not
his listless hands
Lean on the shepherd's staff
no more he wields
The Libyan bow--but to the oppressor yields
Submissively his freedom and his lands.
Has he no courage? Once he had--but lo!
Harsh servitude hath worn him to the bone.
No enterprise? Alas! the brand the blow
Have humbled him to dust--even hope is gone!
"He's a base-hearted hound--not worth his food"
His master cries--"he has no gratitude." 

From deserts wild and many a pathless wood
Of Savage climes where I have wander'd long
Whose hills and streams are yet ungraced by song
I bring illustrious bard this garland rude.
The offering though uncouth in kindly mood
Thou wilt regard if haply there should be
'Mong meaner things the flower Simplicity
Fresh from coy Nature's virgin solitude.
Accept this frail memorial honour'd Scott
Of favour'd intercourse in former day--
Of words of kindness I have ne'er forgot--
Of acts of friendship I can ne'er repay:
For I have found (and wherefore say it not?)
The minstrel's heart as noble as his lay. 

Long years of sorrow and slow wasting care
Have stol'n from thy soft cheek its vermeil hue
And somewhat changed the glossy locks that threw
Their shadowy beauty round thy temples fair
And lent to those sweet eyes a sadder air
That from their long dark fringes laughing blue
Once look'd like violets fresh bathed in dew
And seem'd as they might e'en enchant despair!
Sickness and grief have touched thee: yet so mildly
That though some graces of thy youth are gone
The loveliness that witch'd my heart so wildly
In life's romantic Spring--is still thine own:
And those meek pensive eyes in their revealings
Speak now of higher thoughts and deeper feelings. 

By Heaven directed by the world reviled
Amidst the wilderness they sought a home
Where beasts of prey and men of murder roam
And untamed Nature holds her revels wild:
There on their pious toils their Master smiled
And prosper'd them unknown or scorn'd of men
Till in the satyr's haunt and dragon's den
A garden bloom'd and savage hordes grew mild.
So in the guilty heart when heavenly grace
Enters it ceaseth not till it uproot
All evil passions from each hidden cell
Planting again an Eden in their place
Which yields to men and angels pleasant fruit
And God himself delighteth there to dwell. 

He left his Christian friends and native strand
By pity for benighted men constrained:
His heart was fraught with charity unfeigned
His life was strict his manners meek and bland.
Long dwelt he lonely in a heathen land
In want and weariness--yet ne'er complained
But laboured that the lost sheep might be gained
Nor seeking recompense from human hand.
The credit of the arduous works he wrought
Was reaped by other men who came behind:
The world gave him no honour--none he sought
But cherished Christ's example in his mind.
To one great aim his heart and hopes were given
To serve his God and gather souls to heaven. 

Lady! no marvel that the kinsman young
Of the grand master of the mystery
Of metaphysics fell in love with thee
Nor yet that while the stage jumbling along
Soothed him to slumber with its one dull song
As towards the land of lakes and poesy
The wayward youth rode nightly journeying--he
Over thy imagined form in visions hung.
For thou hast charms to warm a colder breast
Than that of youthful poet: locks like night
Cheeks of rich bloom where love hath built his nest
Looks like young Juno's
eyes from whose full glance
The gazer shrinks abashed as in the fight
The polished shield returns the warrior's lance. 

I looked for thy return belovd spring!
As with a sick man's wish I pined for thee
A weak and fretful longing
for to me
I thought thy coming would renewal bring
Of powers and loves now slowly perishing
Thy soft clear sun thy buds on ground and tree
Opening the glad tumultuous melody
Of thy young birds each new and lovely thing
Within my breast the selfsame joy would wake
They waked of old. O fond! to deem the spell
Of outward beauty could have power to make
Him happy in whose heart the living well
Of happiness is dried! Thou camest at last
And ere I felt thy presence thou wast past.

So thou wouldst tempt me pretty neophyte
Me bred in those learnd halls whose sons erst broke
With arm polemic Rome's usurp yoke
Though all unfit to wage--with eyes so bright
And smiles so sweet--the controversial fight
Me whom no few as Methodist assail
Me thou wouldst tempt to quit the happy pale
Of England's Church to pope and priest my right
Of thought resigning.
Cherish gentle friend
The new-found light if light it be and tread
Thy clouded path to heaven: and let me wend
My way with difficulty sore bested
Nor needing more incumbrances alone
Free from thy Church's fetters and thy own!

They say that thou wert lovely on thy bier
More lovely than in life
that when the thrall
Of earth was loosed it seemed as though a pall
Of years were lifted and thou didst appear
Such as of old amidst thy home's calm sphere
Thou sat'st a kindly Presence felt by all
In joy or grief from morn to evening-fall
The peaceful Genius of that mansion dear.
Was it the craft of all-persuading Love
That wrought this marvel? or is Death indeed
A mighty master gifted from above
With alchemy benign to wounded hearts
Minist'ring thus by quaint and subtle arts
Strange comfort whereon after-thought may feed? 

Admiring stranger that with lingering feet
Enchained by wonder pauses on this green
Where thy enraptured sight the dark woods meet
Ah! rest awhile and contemplate the scene.
These hoary pillars clasped by ivy round
This hallowed floor by holy footsteps trod
The mouldering choir by spreading moss embrowned
Where fasting saints devoutly hymned their God.
Unpitying time with slow but certain sweep
Has laid alas! their ancient splendour low:
Yet here let pilgrims while they muse and weep
Think on the lesson that from hence may flow.
Like theirs how soon may be the tottering state
Of man--the temple of a shorter date. 

Fine animated gem whose sparkling light
As on the verdant bank thou liest reclined
Spangles with gold the sable skirts of night
Thy bright beams wake the traveller's sleeping mind.
Over thee the blasts of heaven innoxious blow
Safe from the rushing wild storm is thy seat
Under the sheltering leaf thy beauties glow:
How man might envy thy obscure retreat!
Modest and meek thou shunst the glare of day
Hidden within its shell thy little head
Could he like thee but shun ambition's ray
Content the placid paths of life to tread:
His frequent sighs of sorrow then would cease
Sighs poured at blasted hopes and murdered peace.

Believe me dear unyielding though I be
Ambitions flourish only in the sun--
In noisy daylight every race is run
With lusty pride for all the world to see.
When darkness sinks the earth in mystery
When eye or ear or sight or sound is none
But death a tide that waits to bear us on
And life a loosening anchor in the sea
When time and space are huge about the soul
And ties of custom lost beyond recall
And courage as a garment in the flame
Then all my spirit breaks without control
Then the heart opens then the hot tears fall
To prove me wholly woman that I am. 

Within the still white room that gave me birth
My body bloomed the counterpart of two
Who bore me
but alone across the earth
Miles from that place the heart they never knew
By wise moon fairies on a far high hill
Was being woven out of threads of mist
Its fragile beauty was a thing more still
Than any lake the wind has ever kissed.
And I have borne it secretly within
A shy soft wonder sleeping at my breast
And such has been dissemblance I could win
That even those who bore me have not guessed
When misty moonlight blows from tree to tree
How near they are at last to finding me. 

Poets make pets of pretty docile words:
I love smooth words like gold-enameled fish
Which circle slowly with a silken swish
And tender ones like downy-feathered birds:
Words shy and dappled deep-eyed deer in herds
Come to my hand and playful if I wish
Or purring softly at a silver disk
Blue Persian kittens fed on cream and curds.
I love bright words words up and singing early
Words that are luminous in the dark and sing
Warm lazy words white cattle under trees
I love words opalescent cool and pearly
Like midsummer moths and honied words like bees
Gilded and sticky with a little sting.

WOULDN'T it jar you wouldn't it make you sore
To see the poet when the goods play out
Crawl off of poor old Pegasus and tout
His skate to two-step sonnets off galore?
Then when the plug a dead one can no more
Shake rag-time than a biscuit right about
The poem-butcher turns with gleeful shout
And sends a batch of sonnets to the store.
The sonnet is a very easy mark
A James P. Dandy as a carry-all
For brain-fag wrecks who want to keep it dark
Just why their crop of thinks is running small.
On the low down dear Mame my looty loo
That's why I've cooked this batch of rhymes for you.

SAY will she treat me white or throw me down
Give me the glassy glare or welcome hand
Shovel me dirt or treat me on the grand
Knife me or make me think I own the town?
Will she be on the level do me brown
Or will she jolt me lightly on the sand
Leaving poor Willie froze to beat the band
Limp as your grandma's Mother Hubbard gown?
I do not know nor do I give a whoop
But this I know: if she is so inclined
She can come and play with me on our back stoop
Even in office hours I do not mind--
In fact I know I'm nice and good and ready
To get an option on her as my steady.

ON the dead level I am sore of heart
For nifty Mame has frosted me complete
Since ten o'clock G.M. when on the street
I saw my lightning finish from the start.
O goo-goo eye how glassy glazed thou art
To freeze my spinach solid when we meet
And keep thy Willie on the anxious seat
Like a bum Dago on an apple cart!
Is it because my pants fit much too soon
Or that my hand-me-down is out of style
That thou dost turn me under when I spoon
Nor hand me hothouse beauties with a smile?
If that's the case next week I'll scorch the line
Clad in a shell I'll buy of Cohenstein.

AS follows is the make-up I shall buy
Next week when from the boss I pull my pay:--
A white and yellow zig-zag cutaway
A sunset-colored vest and purple tie
A shirt for vaudeville and something fly
In gunboat shoes and half-hose on the gay.
I'll get some green shoe-laces by the way
And a straw lid to set 'em stepping high.
Then shall I shine and be the great main squeeze
The warm gazook the only on the bunch
The Oklahoma wonder the whole cheese
The baby with the Honolulu hunch--
That will bring Mame to time--I should say yes!
Ain't my dough good as Murphy's? Well I guess!

O FATE thou art a lobster but not dead!
Silently dost thou grab e'en as the cop
Nabs the poor hobo sneaking from a shop
With some rich geezer's tile upon his head.
By thy fake propositions are we led
To get quite chesty when it's biff! kerflop!
We take a tumble and the cog-wheels stop
Leaving the patient seeing stars in bed.
So was I swatted for I could not draw
My last week's pay. I got the dinky dink.
No more I see the husk in dreams I saw
And Mame is mine some more I do not think.
I know my rival and it makes me sore--
'Tis Murphy night clerk in McCann's drug store.

LAST night--ah! yesternight--I flagged my queen
Steering for Grunsky's ice-cream joint full sail!
I up and braced her breezy as a gale
And she was the all-rightest ever seen.
Just then Brick Murphy butted in between
Rushing my funny song-and-dance to jail
My syncopated con-talk no avail
For Murphy was the only nectarine.
This is a sample of the hand I get
When I am playing more than solitaire
Showing how I become the slowest yet
When it's a case of razors in the air
And competition knocks me off creation
Like a gin-fountain smashed by Carrie Nation.

SEE how that Murphy cake-walks in his pride
That brick-topped Murphy fourteen-dollar jay
You'd think he'd leased the sidewalk by the way
He takes up half a yard on either side!
I'm wise his diamond ring's a cut-glass snide
His overcoat is rented by the day
But still no kick is coming yet from Mae
When Murphy cuts the cake so very wide.
Rubber thou scab! Don't throw on so much spaniel!
Say are there any more at home like you?
You're not the only lion after Daniel
You're not the only oyster in the stew.
Get next you pawn-shop sport! Come off the fence
Before I make you look like thirty cents!

MAYHAP you think I cinched my little job
When I made meat of Mamie's dress-suit belle.
If that's your hunch you don't know how the swell
Can put it on the plain unfinished slob
Who lacks the kiss-me war paint of the snob
And can't make good inside a giddy shell
Wherefore the reason I am fain to tell
The slump that caused me this melodious sob.
For when I pushed Brick Murphy to the rope
Mame manned the ambulance and dragged him in
Massaged his lamps with fragrant drug store dope
And coughed up loops of kindergarten chin
She sprang a come back piped for the patrol
Then threw a glance that tommyhawked my soul.

I SOMETIMES think that I am not so good
That there are foxier warmer babes than I
That Fate has given me the calm go-by
And my long suit is sawing mother's wood.
Then would I duck from under if I could
Catch the hog special on the jump and fly
To some Goat Island planned by destiny
For dubs and has-beens and that solemn brood.
But spite of bug-wheels in my cocoa tree
The trade in lager beer is still a-humming
A schooner can be purchased for a V
Or even grafted if you're fierce at bumming.
My finish then less clearly do I see
For lo! I have another think a-coming.

LAST night I tumbled off the water cart--
It was a peacherino of a drunk
I put the cocktail market on the punk
And tore up all the sidewalks from the start.
The package that I carried was a tart
That beat Vesuvius out for sizz and spunk
And when they put me in my little bunk
You couldn't tell my jag and me apart.
Oh! would I were the ice man for a space
Then might I cool this red-hot cocoanut
Corral the jim-jam bugs that madly race
Around the eaves that from my forehead jut--
Or will a carpenter please come instead
And build a picket fence around my head?

AS one who with his landlord stands deuce high
And blocks his board bill off with IOU's
Touching the barkeep lightly for his booze
Sidestepping when a creditor goes by
Soaking his mother's watch-chain on the sly
Haply his ticker too haply his shoes
Till Mr. Johnson comes to turn him loose
And lift the mortgage from that poor cheap guy
So am I now small change in Mamie's scorn
A microbe's egg or two-bits in a fog
A first cornet that cannot toot a horn
A Waterbury watch that's slipped a cog
For when her make-up's twisted to a frown
What can I but go 'way back and sit down?

O scaly Mame to give me such a deal
To hand me such a bunch when I was true!
You played me double and you knew it too
Nor cared a wad of gum how I would feel.
Can you not see that Murphy's handy spiel
Is cheap balloon juice of a Blarney brew
A phonograph where all he has to do
Is give the crank a twist and let 'er reel?
Nay love has put your optics on the bum
To you are Murphy's gold bricks all O.K.
His talks go down however rank they come
For he has got you going fairy fay.
Ah well! In that I'm in the box with you
For love has got poor Willie groggy too.

LIFE is a combination hard to buck
A proposition difficult to beat
E'en though you get there Zaza with both feet
In forty flickers it's the same hard luck
And you are up against it nip and tuck
Shanghaied without a steady place to eat
Guyed by the very copper on your beat
Who lays to jug you when you run amuck.
O Life! you give Yours Truly quite a pain.
On the T square I do not like your style
For you are playing favorites again
And you have got me handicapped a mile.
Avaunt false Life with all your pride and pelf:
Go take a running jump and chase yourself! 

IF I were smooth as eels and slick as soap
A baked-wind expert jolly with my clack
Gally enough to ask my money back
Before the steerer feeds me knock-out dope
Still might I throw a duck-fit in my hope
That I possessed a headpiece like a tack
To get my Mamie in my private sack
Ere she could flag some Handsome Hank and slope.
What ho! she bumps! My wish avails me not
My work is coarse and Mame is onto me
So am I never Johnnie-on-the-spot
When any wooden Siwash ought to be.
Thus I get busy working up a grouch
Whenever heartless Mame harpoons me--ouch!

O Mommer! wsn't Mame a looty toot
Last night when at the Rainbow Social Club
She did the bunny hug with every scrub
From Hogan's Alley to the Dutchmen's Boot
While little Willie like a plug-eared mute
Papered the wall and helped absorb the grub
Played nest-egg with the benches like a dub
When hot society was easy fruit!
Am I a turnip? On the strict Q.T.
Why do my Trilbys get so ossified?
Why am I minus when it's up to me
To brace my Paris Pansy for a glide?
Once more my hoodoo's thrown the game and scored
A flock of zeros on my tally-board. 

NIXIE! I'm not canned chicken till I'm cooked
And hope still rooms in this pneumatic chest
While something's doing underneath my vest
That makes me think I'm squiffier than I looked.
Mayhap Love knew my class when I was booked
As one shade speedier than second best
To knock the previous records galley west
While short-end suckers on my bait were hooked.
Mayhap--I give it up--but this I know:
When I saw Mamie on the line today
She turned her happy searchlights on me so
And grinned so like a living picture--say
If a real lady threw you such a chunk
Couldn't she pack her Raglan in your trunk?

OH for a fist to push a fancy quill!
A Lovers' Handy Letter Writer too
To help me polish off this billy doo
So it can jolly Mame and make a kill
Coax her to think that I'm no gilded pill
But rather the unadulterated goo.
Below I give a sample of the brew
I've manufactured in my thinking mill:
"Gum Drop:--Your tanglefoot has got my game
I'm stuck so tight you cannot shake your catch
It's cruelty to insects--honest Mame--
So won't you join me in a tie-up match?
If you'll talk business I'm your lemon pie.
Please answer and relieve
AN ANXIOUS GUY." 

WOMAN you are indeed a false alarm
You offer trips to heaven at tourist's rates
And publish fairy tales about the dates
You're going to keep (not meaning any harm)
Then get some poor old Rube fresh from the farm
As graceful as a kangaroo on skates
Trying to transfer at the Pearly Gates--
For instance note this jolt that smashed the charm:--
"P.S.--You are all right but you won't do.
You may be up a hundred in the shade
But there are cripples livelier than you
And my man Murphy's strictly union-made.
You are a bargain but it seems a shame
That you should drink so much.
Yours truly
MAME." 

LAST night I dreamed a passing dotty dream--
I thought the cards were coming all my way
That I could shut and open things all day
While Mame and I were getting thick as cream
And starred as an amalgamated team
In a cigar-box flat across the bay--
Just then the alarm clock blew to pieces. Say
Wouldn't that jam you? I should rather scream.
Sleep like a bunco artist rubbed it in
Sold me his ten-cent oil stocks though he knew
It was a Kosher trick to take the tin
When I was such an easy thing to do
For any centenarian can see
To ring a bull's-eye when he shoots at me.

A PARDON if too much I chew the rag
But say it's getting rubbed in good and deep
And I have reached the limit where I weep
As easy as a sentimental jag.
My soul is quite a worn and frazzled rag
My life is damaged goods my price is cheap
And I am such a snap I dare not peep
Lest some should read the price-mark on my tag.
The more my sourballed murmur since I've seen
A Sunday picnic car on Market Street
Full of assorted sports each with his queen--
And chewing pepsin on the forninst seat
Were Mame and Murphy diked to suit the part
And clinching fins in public heart to heart. 

FORGET it? Well just watch me try to shake
The memory of that four-bit Scheutzen Park
Where Sunday picnics boil from dawn till dark
And you tie down the Flossie you can take
If you don't mind man-handling and can make
A prize rough house to jolly up the lark
To show the ladies you're the whole tan bark
And leave a blaze of fireworks in your wake.
'Twas there before the Rainbow Club that Mame
Bawled herself out as Murphy's finansay
And all the chronic glad hand-claspers came
To copper invites for the wedding day
And when the jocund day threw up the sponge
Murphy was billed to take the fatal plunge.

AT noon today Murphy and Mame were tied.
A gospel huckster did the referee
And all the Drug Clerks' Union loped to see
The queen of Minnie Street become a bride
And that bad actor Murphy by her side
Standing where Your Despondent ought to be.
I went to hang a smile in front of me
But weeps were in my glimmers when I tried.
The pastor murmured "Two and two make one"
And slipped a sixteen K on Mamie's grab
And when the game was tied and all was done
The guests shied footwear at the bridal cab
And Murphy's little gilt-roofed brother Jim
Snickered "She's left her happy home for him." 

STILL joy is rubbernecking on the street
Still hikes the Mags' parade at five o'clock
Still does the masher march around the block
Pining in vain some hothouse plant to meet
Still does the rounder pull your leg to treat
Where flows the whisky sour or russet bock
And the store-clothing dummies in a flock
Keep good and busy following their feet.
Rats! cut this out
for I'm a last year's champ
Into the old bone orchard am I blowing
So with the late lamented let me camp
My walkers to the graveyard daisies toeing
And shaking this too uppish generation
Pass checks through cigarette asphyxiation. 

TO just one girl I've tuned my sad bazoo
Stringing my pipe-dream off as it occurred
And as I've tipped the straight talk every word
If you don't like it you know what to do.
Perhaps you think I've handed out to you
An idle jest a touch-me-not absurd
As any sky-blue-pink canary bird
Billed for a record season at the Zoo.
If that's your guess you'll have to guess again
For thus I fizzled in a burst of glory
And this rhythmatic side-show doth contain
The sum and substance of my hard-luck story
Showing how Vanity is still on deck
And Humble Virtue gets it in the neck.

WHEN is life other than a tragedy
Whether it is played in tears from the first scene
In sable robes and grief's mute pageantry
For loves that died ere they had ever been
Or whether on the edge of joys set keen
While all the stage with laughter is agog
Death stepping forward with an altered mien
Pulls off his mask and speaks the epilogue?
Life is a play acted by dying men
Where if its heroes seem to foot it well
And go light-tongued without grimace of pain
Death will be found anon. And who shall tell
Which part was saddest or in youth or age
When the tired actor stops and leaves the stage? 

Yes who shall tell the value of our tears
Whether we wept aright or idly grieved?
There is a tragedy in unloved years
And in those passionate hours by love deceived
In lips unkissed and hopes too soon bereaved
And youth's high courage which no strength could save
And manhood's web of fate by folly weaved
And grey-haired grief brought down into the grave.
Who shall distinguish truly and be wise
'Twixt grief and grief 'twixt night and night? The sun
Has its own sorrow and a voice that cries
Louder than darkness of its joys undone
And pleads with that exceeding bitter cry
"I have tasted honey and behold I die!"

A little honey! Ay a little sweet
A little pleasure when the years were young
A joyous measure trod by dancing feet
A tale of folly told by a loved tongue.
These are the things by which our hearts are wrung
More than by tears. Oh I would rather laugh
So I had not to choose such tales among
Which was most laughable. Man's nobler half
Resents mere sorrow. I would rather sit
With just the common crowd that watch the play
And mock at harlequin and the clown's wit
And call it tragedy and go my way.
I should not err because the tragic part
Lay not in these but sealed in my own heart.

And thus it is. The tale I have to tell
Is such another. He who reads shall find
That which he brings to it of Heaven or Hell
For his best recompense where much is blind
A jest-book or a sermon or mere wind--
Each as he may--for life's least godly mirth
Is mingled strangely here with fate unkind
And this is a true story of the Earth.
The passionate heart of youth with its desires
Is not all noble and some baseness clings
For ever mixed with its eternal fires
Else were it single among human things.
And all life's wisdom learns but this last plan
To jest at tears and weep Man's mirth and Man.

I had been an hour at Lyons. My breath comes
Fast when I think of it. An hour no more
I trod those streets and listened to the drums
The mirth the music and the city's roar
And found no sermon for me in her stones.
It was the evening of St. Martin's fair
And all the world its working bees and drones
Had gone out to the quays in the sweet air
To taste that thing more sweet to human breath
Its own mad laughter at its own mad kind.
"An hour of prayer" I mused "for men of faith."
Yet all these worshippers were only blind.
And I no whit less blind among them went
In search of pleasure for my punishment.

The Lyons fair! In truth it was a Heaven
For idlers' eyes a feast of curious things
Swings roundabouts and shows the Champions Seven
Dramas of battles and the deaths of kings
The whole Place d'Armes grown white as if with snow
With canvas booths arrayed in triple lines
And jugglers lions snakes from Mexico
Dancers on tight ropes clowns and columbines.
I went among them all with grave intent
I too to find it may be some delight.
I was a boy and knew not what life meant
Nor what the pleasures were men seek in it.
Only I knew that mingling with that throng
I was a stranger a strange world among.

I had made my round as yet with little gain
Of undiscovered good in that gay place.
I had sought my share of pleasure but in vain.
Laughter was not for me and hid her face.
I had asked for mirth. The oracles were dumb.
No sound of Folly with her tinkling feet
Had bid my own feet follow and no home
Was mine for merriment or musings sweet.
I had ceased to hope and almost ceased to seek
When from the farthest booth of all the bray
Of brass and drums and fiddling and the shriek
Of a dwarf's voice invited me to stay.
The crowd as scenting some more mirthful thing
Surged round that booth agape and wondering. 

It was a booth no larger than the rest
No loftier fashioned and no more sublime
As poor a shrine as ever youth possessed
In which to worship truth revealed in time.
Yet to my soul the mean remembrance clings
With all the folly of that far fair eve
And my pulse throbs with lost imaginings
And passion rises from its grave to grieve.
Vain dreams brute images! and over all
The shrill-voiced dwarf its hierarch and priest
Vaunting its praise a pagan prince of Baal.
It scared me as of some wild idol feast.
"The Booth of Beauty" thus it was I read
Blazoned in scarlet letters overhead.

I stopped I listened and I entered in
With half-a-dozen more that sight to see.
"The Booth of Beauty" 'twas a name of sin
Which seemed to promise a new mystery.
There was a crowd already in the place
And 'twixt me and the stage now darkly hid
The gathering evening had come down apace
And all was dim within and overspread.
I know not by what instinct or mute proof
Of Providence it was but this is true
Even as I stepped 'neath that ignoble roof
A prescience warned me there of portents new
And a voice spoke with no uncertain sound
Warning me back as from ungodly ground.

An instant just an instant and no more
And it was gone and I with eyes unsealed
Saw the bald pageant stripped to its thought's core
And naked there to my scared eyes revealed.
Upon a throne which filled the upper space
Two female monsters sat the first a girl
Marked like a leopard with pied arms and face
And restless eyes aflame and teeth of pearl.
Her as we ventured near I heard awhile
Say she was hungry and a gleam like blood
Lighted her lips and died in a fierce smile.
A woman's hand behind me in the crowd
Clutched at my arm and through the booth there went
A shiver of half fear half merriment.

Beyond her sat a second monster. She
In shape and sense was undisguisedly real
An ox-eyed queen of full-fed majesty
And giant height and comeliness ideal.
She too her tale related as was due
In measured tones her age her birth her name
Bourgeois her parents friends of order too
And good Imperialists of honest fame
Her age eighteen her height seven feet her waist
An ell and more in its circumference
Her leg above the knee and where was placed
Its point of full development. . . The sense
Of the rest I lost for laughing half aloud
Again a woman touched me in the crowd. 

She was a little woman dressed in black
Who stood on tiptoe with a childish air
Her face and figure hidden in a sacque
All but her eyes and forehead and dark hair.
Her brow was pale but it was lit with light
And mirth flashed out of it it seemed in rays.
A childish face but wise with woman's wit
And something too pathetic in its gaze.
In the bare dusk of that unseemly place
I noted all and this besides a scar
Which on her cheek had left a paler trace.
It seemed to tell its tale of love and war.
That little scar! Doubt whispered of this one
Boy as I was she had not lived a nun.

A second warning nor unheeded. Yet
The thought appealed to me as no strange thing
Pure though I was that love impure had set
Its seal on that fair woman in her Spring.
Her broken beauty did not mar her grace
In form or spirit. Nay it rather moved.
It seemed a natural thing for that gay face
It should have known and suffered and been loved.
It kindled in me too to view it thus
A mood of daring which was more than mine
And made my shamefaced heart leap valorous
And fired its courage to a zeal divine.
All this in one short instant as I gazed
Into her eyes admiring yet amazed.

Me too she doubtless read. For with her hand
Raised as for help and pointing to a chair
She bade me with a gesture part command
And part entreaty I would set her there.
She could not see she said the Queen of Love
My eyes so coveted and laughed and laid
Upon my lips the fingers of her glove
When I protested at the words she said.
I hardly know how it all came about
But did her bidding as she would and she
From her new vantage bore the humour out
And mocked the more at each new mockery.
And still she held my arm and I her dress
"Lest she should fall" she said in waywardness.

Thus it began with laughter. But anon
The ox-eyed queen who had resumed by rote
The tale of her perfections one by one
Turned by some ominous chance towards the spot
Where we two stood. "And take good note" said she"
All here is honest beauty flesh and blood
As any in the world. Yet if there be
A doubt between you let me make it good.
Which of you two will honour me so near
As to prove the truth?" My cheeks in spite of me
Flamed in the dark and I was seized with fear
And a wild doubt lest mine the choice should be.
The little woman on the chair began
To shout aloud and bid me play the man.

Oh 'tis a terrible thing in early youth
To be assailed by laughter and mute shame
A terrible thing to be befooled forsooth
By one's own foolish face betrayed in flame.
The little traitor when she saw me dumb
Went on to clap her hands till all and each
Took up the jest and called on me to come
And prove my courage in the manly breach.
The imperious queen stood waiting for me there
Pointing and beckoning and the crowd closed in.
Under the cover of a wilder air
From the brass band the darkness and the din
I know not how it was in fear or fun
I touched that monster's knee and all was done.

I touched that knee. She did not show surprise
And the earth had not opened at our feet.
She did not even laugh. Her foolish eyes
Twinkled a moment in her cheeks then set
Like fog-bound stars for ever from my sight.
And at a signal from the little woman
Who clung to me still a chorus left and right
Of laughter rose Homeric and inhuman
Drowning all further sense in one wild roar.
I heard the spotted girl with leopard lips
Complain that she was hungry as before
And all the world was merged in an eclipse
Darkening the air around and overhead
And then I broke away and turned and fled. 

Alas poor Queen of Beauty! In my heart
I could weep for you and your sad graceless doom.
You stand at my life's threshold in the part
Of king's chief jester in the ante-room
And none more near the throne. You made us sport
According to your folly and passed on
And now you live with pension in Love's Court
And privilege to jest and wear the crown.
Yes I could weep for you. Your part it was
To strike the cymbals on a night sublime
For Love's first bridal dance. Alas alas!
Time the avenger of our manhood's prime
Is gathering all life courtiers to his cell
And you among the rest. So fare you well. 

I fled the booth with feelings as of Cain
Yet laughing at my own bewilderment.
My cheeks had blushed till it was physical pain
And my eyes smarted. Through my head there went
The little woman's last appealing word
Bidding me stop in tones that smote afresh.
And 'twixt my finger and thumb there throbbed and stirred
The semblance of that monstrous pound of flesh
The knee that I had handled. With it too
The jet beads of the little woman's skirt
Where I had held her left an impress new
And touched my conscience to a deeper hurt.
I was ashamed of all with shame intense
My youth my frailty and my innocence. 

I fled into the bosom of the night
Leaving the Fair behind me. I had need
Of the sweet healing darkness to my sight
As a bruise needs a poultice. And in speed
I went thus half through Lyons loath to win
Back to the crowd and doubly loath to go
Thus foolishly transfigured to my inn.
Strange fateful night! Even to this hour 'tis so.
Night in a city with the distant hum
Of laughing crowds the silence of strange streets
My own mute footfalls and the redolent gloom
Of oil-lit thresholds brings it back and cheats
My sorrow still to the last dreams of good
I dreamed that evening in my solitude.

If I have since done evil in my life
I was not born for evil. This I know.
My soul was a thing pure from sensual strife.
No vice of the blood foredoomed me to this woe.
I did not love corruption. Beauty truth
Justice compassion peace with God and man
These were my laws the instincts of my youth
And hold me still conceal it as I can.
I did not love corruption nor do love.
I find it ill to hate and ill to grieve.
Nature designed me for a life above
The mere discordant dreams in which I live.
If I now go a beggar on the Earth
I was a saint of Heaven by right of birth.

You know the story of my birth the name
Which I inherited for good and ill
The secret of my father's fame and shame
His tragedy and death on that dark hill.
You know at least what the world knows or knew
For time has taken half the lookers-on
As it took him and leaves his followers few
And those that loved him scarce or almost none.
To me his son there had remained the story
Told and retold by her who knew it best
A mystery of love perhaps of glory
A heritage to hold and a bequest.
Ah how it loved him that sad woman's heart
What faith was hers and what a martyr's part! 

Nor later when with her my childhood died
Was life less sealed to me. The Church became
My guardian next and mother deified
Who lit within me a more subtle flame
Of constancy and clothed me in her mood.
No sound no voice within that sanctuary
Told me of common evil. Unsubdued
And vast and strange a thing from which to flee
The world lay there without us. We within
Fenced in and folded safe in our strong home
Knew nothing of the sorrow and the sin.
'Tis no small matter to have lived in Rome
In the Church's very bosom and abode
Cloistered and cradled there a child of God.

Thus through these griefs I had been set apart
As for a double priesthood. Life to me
In those first moments when I probed my heart
Less an enchantress seemed than enemy.
My knowledge of the world had nothing human.
I saw Mankind a tribe my natural foe
Whom I must one day battle with
and Woman
Ah! Woman was a snare I did not know.
Indeed it may be that already hope
Knocked at my soul with tales it dared not own
Of woman's kindness in my horoscope.
Man only Man I feared with eyes bent down
Man the oppressor who with pale lips curled
Sheds blood in the high places of the world.

My childhood then had passed a mystery
Shrouded by death my boyhood a shut thing.
The passion of my soul as it grew free
With growing youth a bird with broken wing
Knew nothing of its strength to dare or do
Or if it dreamed of battle still to come
That was its secret hidden in the blue
Of life's great vault of tears which was its doom
A duty of revenge some day for blood.
Enough! You know I held me from the press
To whom base things are nothing that I stood
Parted from this world's weekday wickedness
By a whole legend of romance sublime
Perhaps by the dead virtue of a crime.

I linger on the threshold of my youth.
If you could see me now as then I was
A fair-faced frightened boy with eyes of truth
Scared at the world yet angry at its laws
Plotting all plots a blushing Cataline
Betrayed by his own cheeks a misanthrope
In love with all things human and divine
The very fool of fortune and high hope
You would deny you knew me. Oh the days
Of our absurd first manhood rich in force
Rich in desire of happiness and praise
Yet impotent in its heroic course
And all for lack of that one worthless thing
Knowledge of life and love and suffering

At such a time indeed of youth's first morn
There is a heaving of the soul in pain
A mighty labour as of joys unborn
Which grieves it and disqulets it in vain.
The soul is scared at her own lack of peace
Her cradle song is mute and she has fled
From her old life as to a wilderness.
She finds herself awake and without bread.
'Tis then the body her new counsellor
Speaks in her ear and still with eloquence
Pleads for more action and his voice to her
Is sweet with love and sadly she consents.
There is a day of youth which needs must come
When each must learn his life and leave his home.

The summer I had passed in my own fashion
High in the Alps a proselyte to toil.
I was released and free and spent my passion
On the bare rocks as on a fruitful soil.
I had soothed my soul with labour and its fire
Borne to those naked heights where I unfurled
My flag with new ambitions high and higher
Even to the last bleak outposts of the world.
My soul had needed courage and behold!
Here in these battles with the hosts of air
And rock and snow and storm she had grown bold
And proved her temper for the coming war.
This was her gain the strife she must engage
With physical fear her childhood's heritage. 

A glorious triumph. On that day of days
When standing on the summit's utmost edge
Of my first mountain-top I viewed the maze
Which I had travelled upwards ledge on ledge
And all that wilderness of rock and plain
Rolled at my feet and when with heel fast set
On Nature's neck I knew the giant slain
My thrall my prisoner on the parapet
I was transfigured. Slowly in me rose
The throb of courage as a sense new born.
Even Man" I cried "Man's self my foe of foes
The phantom of my fears shall feel my scorn
Yet in a nobler war." And trembling then
I seemed to stand I too a man with men.

Thus was my soul enfranchised. But anon
With courage fired to full-fledged enterprise
And pushing still the vantage I had won
I sought communion with a world less wise
The living world. I mixed with not a few
Shepherds and countrymen and village priests
Bagmen at inns and all the motley crew
Which comes and goes on market days and feasts
In old-world hostelries of old-world towns.
These gave a second schooling till the grace
Of the summer ended on the upper downs
And carrying still its glory on my face
I came to Lyons where these things befell.
The why and wherefore of it who shall tell?

The booths were shut. The Fair was at an end
And the crowd gone with multitudinous feet
Noisily home or lingering still to spend
At Caf doors or at the turn of the street
In twos and threes its laughter with good-night.
All turned to silence. Even my heart had peace
As self-possessed and freed from its vain fright
I found myself once more upon the quays.
I stopped before the theatre grown dark
With its extinguished lamps and blank repose
A scene of melancholy sad to mark
Made sadder too by the white moon which rose
Behind it virginal with vaporous wings
Aloof and careless of all earthly things.

I had stopped to read a handbill of the play
Caught by the lettering. Thus it was I read
"Programme of this night's pieces Saturday
The twentieth of October 'X. Y. Z.'
A piece in one act and 'Les Bergers Fous'
These to be followed by the well-known 'drame'
Of 'Manon Lescaut' here brought out anew
For the first time at Lyons." And a name
Followed in giant type of one who then
Illustrious stood in all the world of folly
The most sublime Comedian known to men
Mademoiselle Esther Muse of Melancholy."
She in her part of Manon so 'twas writ
Three nights would play in honour infinite.

Such was the legend. I had read it through
Twice ere I thought of thinking what it meant.
And as I turned with a sigh because I knew
That I alone perhaps of all who went
Homewards that night should bid good-night to none
From a side door thrust open on the street
And calllng as she passed in petulant tone
To one within who seemed to rouse her heat
Ah mauvais plaisant! " ere she slammed it to
Out stepped my little woman of the Fair.
Her face was altered but its form and hue
If I had doubted in the moonlight there
Was marked for me by that unaltered sign
The little scar its beauty's underline.

She saw me in an instant and stopped short
With a sudden change of look from fierce to gay.
Her black eyes gleamed with triumph as they caught
Like some wild bird of chase their natural prey.
Ha ha" she cried "c'est lui c'est l'ingnu.
Ah vagabond! 'Tis thus you find me out.
Standing en faction and at midnight too
At the actors' door
with no more fear or doubt
Than any sinner of them all. Oh wise!
Who would have guessed it? No. You shall not speak.
You shall not soil your innocent lips with lies
For any foolish reason in the week
Nor for the year together if you told
Your stories here till both of us grew old. 

"Silence. I will not listen! " "And for what?"
She added strangely in a softer mood.
"You see I am not angry. Do you not?
Only soft-hearted and alas! too good.
Why did you follow me?" She took my hand
With a sudden action so devoid of guile
That I who could not choose but understand
Was softened too and fooled into a smile.
"Why did you follow me ? Here feel" she said
"How my heart beats. It frightens me to find
So much of cunning in so young a head
So young a heart--and mine which is not blind!"
She pressed my hand to her side. In truth her heart
Was beating there my own heart's counterpart.

She watched me curiously with mocking eyes
Yet tenderly till once again her mirth
Prevailed with her and quick in feigned surprise
Thrusting me back "Ah traitor!" she broke forth
"'Twas not for me then you were waiting there
Not me poor foolish me. The Queen of Love
The woman of the booth! She was your care!
Monster! to dare me thus! And yet you prove
Your wit in vain for look you foolish boy
She cannot walk the streets like you and me
Or the town would be at her heels." Convulsed with joy
At this new jest she laughed remorselessly
Till I was almost angry and inclined
To leave her there. And then she changed her mind. 

She seemed to change as if with a change of the wind
And growing serious sighed "Now look" she said
"You think me a mad woman and unkind
But that is nonsense. I am sound of head
And not unsound of heart ah no not there!
But you turn my head with your John the Baptist's face.
I will not be made jealous so beware."
She looked entreatingly as if for grace
And held me by the arm. "We are strangers both
Among these heavy Lyonnese. By right
We so should hold together. Tell me truth.
You never saw me did you till to-night?"
I said "I came here not twelve hours ago!
Why should you think it? " "No" she broke in "no. 

"I do not doubt it. You have a look of truth
Which is beyond suspicion. But the world
Is as full of knaves as fools. You have your youth
And I my wisdom. Then your head is curled
Just as I like it and your face is smooth
And it can blush like your red innocent hands.
I saw it in an instant in the booth
That we should know each other and be friends.
It does not do to question. Look at me.
I am not pretty yet the world's best sense
Has raved about my beauty foolishly
These five years past in every mood and tense!
Say. Would you like we should be friends for good?"
Not knowing what I said I said I would. 

We shall be friends. How friends? You must know me first.
What? Like the Pont Neuf? Should you wish it? Well
None ever yet repented it who durst.
Oh you shall know me as I dare not tell.
You said I was not pretty. 'Tis the paint
That ruins the complexion and the hours
Spent at the footlights. These would rob a saint
Much more a sinner of her natural powers.
Voil la casse du mtier! Then this scar
Some praise it as a beauty. They are fools.
At best it but an honour is of war
And beauty is not measured by foot-rules.
So you forgive it me what need we care?
Fair faces are but signs of things more fair." 

She went on talking like a running stream
Without more reason or more pause or stay
Than to gather breath and then pursue her whim
Just where it led her tender sad or gay.
Her moods seemed all alike to her. But soon
With a little shudder for the wind was chill
And we had lingered on there in the moon
She bade me follow and I bowed my will.
The torrent of her words had drowned in me
What humour of resistance there had been
And the last sense of danger ceased to be
In the first joy of yielding to such sin.
There is no pleasure in the world so sweet
As being wise to fall at folly's feet. 

Who might describe the humours of that night
The mirth the tragedy the grave surprise
The treasures of fair folly infinite
Learned as a lesson from those childlike eyes?
When we had left our river of fair hope
The world once more engulfed us in its ways
And street on street we passed and shop on shop
Still loitering by to peer within and praise.
At each new stall we stopped as if in doubt
Asking a price and in pretence to buy.
I thought she would have worn men's patience out
With her fool's talk while I stood idly by.
And still as each grew warm with cunning word
She turned their wrath from surly to absurd.

And so we went our way--yes hand in hand
Like two lost children in some magic wood
Baffled and baffling with enchanter's wand
The various beasts that crossed us and withstood.
Each step was an experience. Every mood
Of that fair woman a fresh gospelling
Which spoke aloud to me and stirred my blood
To a new faith I knew not with what sting.
One thing alone I knew or cared to know
Her strange companionship thus strangely won.
The past the future all of weal or woe
In my old life was gone for ever gone.
And still to this I clung as one who clings
To hope's last hencoop in the wreck of things. 

How shall I tell my fall? The life of man
Is but a tale of tumbles this way thrown
At his beginning by mere haste of plan
In the first gaping ditch with flowers o'ergrown
Anon more cautious for his wounded knees
Yet falling still through much expectancy
And so to age the goal of his heart's ease
Stumbling in blindness on he knows not why.
How shall I tell it ? As the poets tell
Who wrap love in a garment of vain light?
Or plainly naked the poor child of Hell
And laughter that it is and starless night?
I like the truth best. Yet this love sad thing
Mired and defiled I saw it once a king. 

We came at last alas! I see it yet
With its open windows on the upper floor
To a certain house still stirring with lights set
And just a chink left open of the door.
Here my companion stopped and bade me in
Her dressmaker's she said. And I who heard
A sound of women's voices from within
Shrank back alarmed and ready at a word
From any damsel stoutly to deny.
But "Madame Blanche" she said to ease my fears
"Is a good soul and far too wise to pry
Or fancy evil of her customers
At any hour of the night they choose to come
Much less of me." And so I followed dumb.

I followed dumb and shrinking like a thief
Close in her shadow from the women's guess
Yet ruthlessly betrayed for my cheeks' grief
From head to foot in the tall pier-glasses.
My vagabond attire my coat all rags
My tattered plaid stained with the summer's dust
The sash which bound my waist all gaps and jags
With gaiters frayed and such sad shoes as must
Have served Ulysses at his journey's close
All these I saw revealed to my disgrace
My hat still crowned with its last Alpine rose
And what she had called my "John the Baptist's face"
Red with confusion and the rage of youth
I saw it all the whole remorseless truth. 

Not so my little sponsor. She with eyes
Proudly unconscious of my fool's display
Talked volubly to all and scorned disguise
While Madame Blanche herself no less than they
Smiled us a welcome and with upraised hands
Disclaimed excuse and led us straightway through
To an inner room as to a Conference.
There I first saw to my amazement new
That fair white mystery a woman's dress
And heard its language spoken. Stuffs were brought
And cards unrolled before us braids and lace
Lauded and handled and their merits taught
To ears that listened and to eyes that saw
Their secret sense the law within the law. 

Sublime discussions! Let who will be wise!
These are the things that touch us and transcend.
The logic of all beauty is surprise
The reason of all love the unseen end.
Still as they argued on of this and that
Turning perchance to me as arbiter
Where in my corner I still speechless sat
To end their strife my vision seemed to clear
The scales fell from my eyes of ignorance
The terror from my heart. One thing alone
Stood plain before me the supreme fair chance
Of a first fortune glorious and unknown
Which beckoned me with no uncertain hand
To touch and taste and learn and understand. 

Suddenly then my strange companion cried
"Bring me the body." In a moment more
She had thrown off her hat her veil untied
And motioning all the women to the door
While I sat speechless by who would have gone
Undid her jacket and anon her dress
With the jet buttons of it one by one
And stood but clothed the more in loveliness
A sight sublime a dream a miracle
A little goddess from some luminous field
Brought down unconscious on our Earth to dwell
And in an age of innocence revealed
Naked but not ashamed. Nay wherefore shame?
And I ah who shall blame me who shall blame?

I will not tell the secrets of that place.
When Madame Blanche returned to us again
I was kneeling there while Esther kissed my face
And dried and comforted my tears. O vain
And happy tears! O griefs thrice comforted!
I trembled but not with fear. If I was dumb
'Twas not for lack of speech where all was said.
My doubts were ended and my fears o'ercome
And joy had triumphed. Life has given me much
And pleasure much and Heaven may yet have store
Of nobler hopes to kindle and to touch
But never for all time ah never more
That delicate dawn of wonder when lips move
First to the love of life and love of love.

He who has once been happy is for aye
Out of destruction's reach. His fortune then
Holds nothing secret and Eternity
Which is a mystery to other men
Has like a woman given him its joy.
Time is his conquest. Life if it should fret
Has paid him tribute. He can bear to die.
He who has once been happy! When I set
The world before me and survey its range
Its mean ambitions its scant fantasies
The shreds of pleasure which for lack of change
Men wrap around them and call happiness
The poor delights which are the tale and sum
Of the world's courage in its martyrdom

When I hear laughter from a tavern door
When I see crowds agape and in the rain
Watching on tiptoe and with stifled roar
To see a rocket fired or a bull slain
When misers handle gold when orators
Touch strong men's hearts with glory till they weep
When cities deck their streets for barren wars
Which have laid waste their youth and when I keep
Calmly the count of my own life and see
On what poor stuff my manhood's dreams were fed
Till I too learned what dole of vanity
Will serve a human soul for daily bread
--Then I remember that I once was young
And lived with Esther the world's gods among. 

I lived with Esther not for many days
If days be counted by the fall of night
And the sun's rising yet through years of praise
If truth be timepiece of joys infinite.
And what a life it was! No vain sweet dream
Of love in idleness which all men know
But a full drama fashioned on the theme
Of strength victorious over death and woe.
Here was no faltering. Ours the triumph was
Of that strong logic which beholds each day
As a new world to conquer and the cause
Itself complete of a more glorious fray.
To-day our cycle was. In it sublime
We sat enthroned as on the neck of Time.

For Esther was a woman most complete
In all her ways of loving. And with me
Dealt as one deals who careless of deceit
And rich in all things is of all things free.
She did not stop with me to feel her way
Into my heart because she all hearts knew
But like some prodigal heir of yesterday
Just in possession counted not her due
And grandly gave. O brave humility!
O joy that kneels! O pride that stoops to tears!
She spent where others had demanded fee
Served where all service had of right been hers
Casting her bread of life upon love's ways
Content to find it after many days. 

I must not speak of it. Even yet my heart
Is but a feeble thing to fret and cry
And it might chance to wake and with a start
When nights were still and stars were in the sky
Sit up and muse upon its lonely state
With the same stars to mock at it as then
And certain chords that touched might touch it yet
And griefs find issue and tears come again.
I must not venture farther in this mood.
Grief is forsworn to me. I will not grieve
Nor think too much on Esther's womanhood
Rather on that which was its make-believe.
And yet awhile she loved me. In this thought
I long found rest when all was come to nought. 

We stayed at Lyons three days only three
In Esther's world of wonder and renown
She glorious star each night immortally
Playing her Manons to the listening town.
I glorious too but in Love's firmament
Watching her face by which alone I moved
A shadow near her raptured and intent
And seeking still the signs that I was loved.
Thrice happy days! Thrice blessed tragedy!
Her Des Grieux was I her lover lorn
Bound to her fortunes blest to live or die
And faithful ever though to faith forsworn
Waiting behind the scenes in that stage-land
To greet her exits and to squeeze her hand.

Who has not wept with Manon? Of all tales
That thrill youth's fancy or to tears or mirth
None other is there where such grief prevails
Such passionate pity for the loves of Earth.
Who has not wept with Manon in her sin
Wept in her punishment? What angry heart
Has been unmoved in youth to see her win
With those sad archers to the inhuman cart?
Who has not followed her beyond the seas
And sold his life for her and bowed his pride
And sinned all sins to buy her back to ease
And died all deaths to venge her when she died?
And I blest boy who each new happy night
When all was done still lived in her delight! 

This was my term of glory. All who know
Something of life will guess untold the end.
In love one ever kisses for his woe
One lends his cheek alas! or seems to lend
One has the pleasure one the penalties
One is in earnest one has time to laugh
One turns impatient from imploring eyes
And one in terror spells love's epitaph.
There was no wisdom in this love of mine
Therefore it perished earlier than the rest
Although I poured out all my heart like wine
And watered it with tears and prayed unblest
In my soul's rage to all the Saints of heaven
To give me this and yet to be forgiven.

It might not be. Some things are possible
And some inipossible for even God.
And Esther had no soul which Heaven or Hell
Could touch by joy or soften by the rod.
She could not really love me. The day came
How soon how late I need not to devise
When passion prayed its last and only shame
Stood for my portion in a world grown wise
And I went forth for ever from her sight
Knowing the good and evil. On that day
I did her wrong by anger. Now life's light
Illumines all and I behold her gay
As I first knew her in my love purblind
Dear passionate Esther soulless but how kind!

Born in a cabin in the forest wild
With old Kentucky pioneers he found
A life to penury and hardship bound
With little schooling for the ardent child
But skies grew brighter when Romance beguiled
And books gave dreams that charmed the bloody ground
Like roses in the clearings all around--
Then came the Law and with it Fortune smiled.
Years brought on War and like an angel sent
To save the Great Emancipator came
And daily watched its course as President
Till Gettysburg rolled back the sea of flame
And there he rose sublimely eloquent
With those immortal words that crown his fame. 

Perhaps to one of us may come the day
When we must stand for principle and rise
Like some lone peak against the silent skies
With none to lean upon and none to sway
But would we help our brothers on the way
We must come down to earth with kindly aim
Not coldly stand aloof and watch the game
But play with zest as little children may.
We cannot lead said he a life apart
Nor turn away from men for faults that mar
While good remains there's hope to reach the heart
And lead our comrades like a steadfast star
Hold up the light for them in hall or mart
And take them all and use them as they are.

As we look back and scan life's hazy prime
Across the waste of long-forgotten years
Some gleam divine breaks through the night and clears
The clouds that veil the beacon lights of Time
Making appeal to every age and clime
While all else in the darkness disappears
The past is lost with all its joys and tears
But here and there a star with look sublime
Shines on our days with gleams from long ago.
And so will Roosevelt crown the skies to be
Like some great mountain in an afterglow
That shades its lower slopes as tenderly
As Time hides lives we do not care to know
While all the Highest glows in memory.

Born with a passion from his boyhood days
To mould great nature to his vast desire
He strung his incandescent lamps on wire
And telegraphed on single lines four ways
Wrought day and night in God's eternal maze
To find the clues that set the world on fire
With phones and motion pictures to inspire
And phonographs--the marvels of his age.
Then Fortune placed him in a mansion fair
Where love shed on his heart a light divine
For looking on his home and garden rare
He said unto a friend: This is too fine
For me but not too fine for one I care
The most of all--this little wife of mine. 

The parsonage o'erlooked the barren moors
The little garden and the graveyard there
With all the country round it bleak and bare
Yet even desolation had its lures
And like the flower that blossoms and endures
Among the rocks here spirit too grew fair
And found its heaven in the bracing air
Of Haworth midst the villagers and boors.
She loved the tempest and the driving rain
Her very loneliness inspired her sight
The winds expressed her longing and her pain
And gave her fancy weird the wings for flight
But all the beauty round her shone in vain
Unless the home folks shared with her its light. 

She was untaught like peasants of her age
But in her father's garden when a child
She heard the Voices and at first was wild
With fear but acted on their counsels sage
And mounted on her charger like a page
In armor clad this maid so young so mild
Now led an army at which people smiled
Or vented on the "sorceress" their rage.
She was inspired if mortal e'er could be
Foretold events and led by light divine
She captured forts and Orleans set free
Crowned Charles at Rheims
then came her sad decline
But death hallowed the Flower of Chivalry
On fields of France forevermore to shine. 

Unmoved he passed a million faces by
When all at once he saw at church one day
A form whose beauty never passed away
But like a guardian spirit ever nigh
Gave life new dreams and aspirations high
And fired his soul to many a tender lay
That still lifts men above the common clay
With thoughts to near divinity to die.
But she who ever kept her own in sight
Gave no response to his impassioned heart
But like a star forever pure and bright
In cold and silent splenfdor shone apart
Divinely set beyond his reach to light
A great ideal for his life and art. 

Who were the heads of that great company
Where Lamb toiled as a clerk the livelong day?
Their proud imperial names have passed away
Like ships long sunk beneath Oblivion's sea
Yet his fair life looms up triumphantly
And o'er the buried past holds kingly sway
As ivy climbs an abbey in decay
Forever keeping green a memory.
For Nature's heart on beauty is so set
She would not lose a flower the Past once gave
But keeps the mould with dews of heaven wet.
Divinely cherishing what Time should save
As when our loved ones fade and we forget
The rose still scents the long-forgotten grave. 

He saw the world from many points of view--
The clouds the strife the beauty and the light
But life to him was mainly but a fight
Where men gain strength from all that they subdue.
And he was brave enough to see it through
With no misgivings for the coming night
Like one who views earth's shadows from a height
Lost in a light beneficent and true.
For while he saw the wreck and ruin there
The flower of youth cut down the fields forlorn
He looked beyond with faith and courage rare
To see apparent failure rise new born
Full sure the night would give earth's clouds and care
The glory and the freshness of the morn. 

His youth was like the bloom of early May
With all its freshness and its sweetness too
Yet with a promise richer as it grew
Like roses budding for a summer day!
But Autumn came too soon in garments gay
With russet red and gold and skies of blue
Yet over all a melancholy hue--
A hectic beauty soon to fade away!
And now how strange it seems to you and me
That even those who loved him passed the light
That years rolled by in scorn and mockery
Before his star rose clear above the Night
As if those ultra rays men could not see
Were rays divine too fine for human sight. 

Some climb the heights and like the crests grow cold
Wrapped in the splendor of their own proud view
Forgetful of the crowd whose toils untold
Have dressed the very soil on which they grew
But thou O woman with a soul as fine
Hadst still the all-embracing heart to see
The light of Heaven pour out its beams devine
On all the humbler lives so dear to thee
And there they shine from pages ever fair
Untouched by time in living pictures bright
Where freedom breathes a pure ampler air
And kindness mellows all the searching light
Poured by a great heart's loving sympathy--
O heart that beat for all humanity!

I hear a voice heroic speak to me:
Wake from thy sleep
they closet dreams and lies
And come with me beneath the open skies
And face the foe! God calls the hour to thee
To sacrifice divine if need there be
And some fair day the mists from earth will rise
And Time look up to see with happy eyes
A better world for all humanity.
And so the poet-soldier heard God's call
Blessing the day Fate threw her bloody gage
His love for England rising over all
He voiced the cry that thrills his noblest page
Glad Honor reigns again in cot and hall
And "we have come into our heritage."

The organ rises with a yearning tone
And soon the picture flashes on the screen
While thousands thrill to watch the touching scene
Where Mary battles with the world alone
An orphan child deserted and unknown.
But with the soul and grace of Nature's queen
She glorifies the lowly and the mean
With light and truth and beauty all her own.
And there she plays an angel in her art
Whose face with all its changes still is fine
As perfect as a dream that grips the heart
When those we loved come in our sleep and shine
Just as we knew them true to live's old part
And flawless in a light that makes divine.

No beauty could escape his loving eyes
Not even ruthless war could hide from view
The smiling fields where crimson poppies grew
Nor mar the sunset's rose and purple dyes
He watched a vine-clad slope with glad surprise
To hear grapepickers sing although they knew
Just on the other side the cannon threw
Their deadly shells and woke the startled skies.
But over all that made Champagne so fair
He saw the grandeur of the field of strife
Exulting in the cause that placed him there.
He felt a calm mid all the carnage rife
And faced the battle with a spirit rare
"For death may be more wonderful than life."

His life and art were never far apart
But like a happy couple they were one
The poet and the man in unison
And everywhere at home in hall or mart
He met his fellows with a kindly heart
And voiced their dreams in verse so finely done
He thrilled the world as with a clarion
Till Fame in many lands acclaimed his art.
Then came detraction for the humble lay
That he had sung with dignity and grace
But he pursued the bright and cheerful way
That kept the sunshine on his noble face
While he unveiled before the light of day
The truth and beauty of the commonplace. 

I heard a poet here once speak in praise
Of men who opened up horizons new
That filled his mind with fresher points of view
And happy dreams whose beauty ne'er decays
But gilds the memories of Harvard days
When James and Royce taught here his teachers true
Who walked these grounds one summer eve and threw
Some starry gleams of hope on life's dark maze.
Who found it good to leave closed rooms that night
And come out here where endless vistas rise
Where faith in all things beautiful gives sight
To scan the darkest depths with fearless eyes
If we are loyal to the highest light
That burns in us responsive to the skies.

The treasures that come down to us from old
Are not the treasures of the sea and land
But human thought more worth than all the Rand
That gave man power to blossom and unfold
And Shakespeare like a sun with light untold
Used his imagination as a wand
Whose rays lit sea and sky on every hand
And touched life's vast encircling shores with gold.
No El Dorado opens up such mines
No Golden Fleece nor far-famed Odyssey
Shines half so fair as his creation shines
With all its beauty voiced ineffably
Forever precious in his jeweled lines--
The richest soil in all humanity.

A hint may guide us on a chartless sea
As birds of passage on the Western main
Led great Columbus o'er the watery plain
Or as the golden dreams of alchemy
Once blazed the way for modern chemistry
With all the growing wonders that we know
And now the psychic's wireless flashes throw
A glimmer on the tide of destiny.
For we are slowly working towards the light
And breaking down the prison walls that hide.
Says Lodge our loved ones passed from earthly sight
Like men who in a tunnell sundered wide
Hear muffled voices strange yet sense aright
Their lost companions on the other side.

He lived in wonderland where fancy kind
Came at his beck and call and led him through
More realms than Homer dreamed or Dante drew
All pictured in his own creative mind
It thrilled the world to see its dreams outlined
And fame came to him then with laurels meet
While fortune poured its treasures at his feet
But he wrapt in his own great art was blind
To lower aims and deemed its heights could know
More rapture than the splendors of a throne
So when success was his and one unknown
Proposed why don't you build a fine chateau?
He tapped his forehead as he proudly said
"Why should I build? My castle is my head."

A maid one evening took a wilted rose
She wore and pressed it in a treasured book
Where she alone was privileged to look
On love's poor fading token in repose
Till time had passed and with it all her woes
And then once more she turned the leaves in tears
To see the beauty of her vanished years
Return like exiles to a sacred close
The shrine deserted but the grounds abloom
With living memories of fairer skies
So love returned
sweet incense swept the room.
She dreamed old dreams again with misty eyes
And then her Heaven paled and in the gloom
She stood outside the gates of Paradise. 

I climbed full easy up the wooded height
And walked the upland's flowering slopes in May
Then walls rose sheer and glaciers barred the way
But worse than all a mist took all my light
And blotted out the crest that lured my sight.
I tried again
but storms drove me astray
And forced me to retreat--to close the day
With failure on the darkling fields at night.
Yet from the valley where I rest awhile
I gaze with joy upon the peak's white throne
Proud of the heights that still my dreams beguile
And humbly happy in my lower zone
That still the highest beckons with a smile
To broader grander outlooks than my own. 

The seven wonders of the world are small
Beside this speeding miracle of earth
Enormous in its weight and in its girth
Hurled through the ether like a cannon ball
Without a guard a sign or signal call
While cities sleep serenely on its face
And ages pass without a single trace
Of one slight jolt or accident at all.
So speeding towards its ever-flying goal
Without a pause to nod or take a breath
The world survives and keeps its kingdoms whole
In spite of imperfections Science saith
And bears us on in its divine control
With love and joy in life and hope in death. 

An artist roamed the earth to find a face
As knights of old once sought the Holy Grail
In countries far and wide but found no trail.
So he pursued his search without a trace
Of that divine Madonna's matchless grace.
He dreamed and seeing he was doomed to fail
Gave up the quest and presently set sail
For Italy his kindred and his race.
And now with sight restored for all things there
He saw the beauty of his own dear shore
And found the hidden gem he deemed so rare
For home gave loveliness unseen before
There shone the Virgin's face supremely fair
In one he knew of old--the girl next door. 

For untold years the Brento and the Po
Poured down into the Gulf their silt and sand
Mud banks arose
Attila and his band
Came like a scourge but some escaped the blow
By taking refuge on those islands low
Built ships
took products of the Western lands
And traded with the East and shores at hand
Till riches came to them with steadfast flow.
And now arose the palace dome and tower
With artists rare to grace their dignity
And Venice now a queen in state and power
Was fair as anything on earth could be
When all her jewels flashed at sunset's hour
Their splendor on the Adriatic Sea. 

Remote from the Arts from books and luxuries
A thoughtful couple lived the whole year round
Upon a quiet shore out on the Sound--
To leave its clovered green and foaming seas
Its lowing kine its roses and its trees
Its rocky shores where peace and health abound
To enter on the striving bustling ground
Manhattan opens up to lives like these.
But when they saw the library happy pair!
And all its treasures vast broke on their sight
The future spread its skies with visions rare
And O the joy the mystery and light
That dwelt within the countless volumes there
How beautiful it made the world that night! 

The world without was hidden quite from view
Its din and strife scarce found an echo here
Yet these dark cloisters faced no prospect drear
But opened on a close where roses grew
Where trees and plants and skies of blue
Such beauty gave the sanctuary dear
The nuns in calm retreat felt Heaven near
And found the peace of God vouchsafed to few.
O soul aspire
but never dwell apart
Build altars too yet live the life of men
But keep some chamber sacred in thy heart--
Some cloister curtained from the common ken
To see as through stained glass when sunbeems dart
A world of beauty rise with light again. 

Who sows the stars upon the field of night
Or throws the moon's soft glamour on the sea?
Who makes the fireflies flash on bush and tree
Or thrills the dawn with flush of rosy light?
Who gems the dew that sparkles on my sight
Or gives the bird its airy pinions free
The rose its hue and fragrant charm for me
Or flowers the fields with myriad blossoms bright?
O deep within my soul I know the Power
That Nature with a million voices sings
Who gave my life its glory for a dower
My eye its light
my soaring thought its wings
And He must love the sky the hill the flower
For Beauty is the very heart of things. 

Men looked with horror on their darkened skies
But Freedom called them and they laid aside
Life's greatest gifts to take their guns with pride
And hasten to their camps with fearless eyes
Then Labor saw its fitting hour to rise
And Woman found her honors multiplied
While millions flung the starry banner wide
To find their flag the grandest of all ties.
For war had brought such magic with its might
That spite of carnage loss and shrapnel scars
Men felt an inspiration and new light
To see the world's great changes under Mars
As though God only dropped the veil of Night
That men might see the glory of the stars. 

She mingled with the world but kept her eyes
Upon its heights and said the shades below
Life's darker shades 'twere better not to know
And living with her highland dreams too wise
To note Rome's lower planes its lusts and lies
She saw her world in light and beauty grow
As some tall peak clears in the Alpen glow
And smiles to feel the peace of stainless skies.
And so she lived to breathe an incense rare
Upon the highways marred with vice and crime
Sweet as a lily rising pure and fair
Above the soiling touch of mud and slime
As she looked up in all her saintly grace
With heaven's light upon her lovely face. 

I am a spirit of the boundless main
For though my argosies go down to sea:
Though wreck and ruin strike the heart of me
Yet over all the failure and the pain
I see my dream ships sail the watery plain
As fair against the Future's golden skies
As if some heaven opened on my eyes
And thrilled Earth's losses with immortal gain.
For deep within my soul the surges pour
Their everlasting yearning in my ears:
And while they ring their triumph evermore
Above defeat Time's transient pain and tears
I drink life's larger hope upon the shore
And hear the music of eternal years. 

Once Donatello took the shapeless stone
And slowly carved the marble to the line
Until he wrought a human form as fine
As Greece or Italy had ever known
Behold a woman now in splendor lone
A statue only but a thing divine
A beauty that this earth cannot outshine
Whose Art antique the world has not outgrown.
And so the poet takes a shapeless thought
And gives its fancies grace and melody
Until he feels he has perfection wrought
Where Thought and Music blending happily
Create the Beauty that all time has sought
Where perfect form is immortality.

We walked Madeira's flowery scented shore
For lilies and geraniums grew there
And roses breathed their fragrance on the air
Great sea cliffs soared a thousand feet or more
And mountain peaks the landscape towered o'er
While glorious vistas charmed us everywhere
O happy day we left behind all care
With all this beauty at our very door.
But when a strain of music reached our ears
Our spirits rose as boundless as the sea
And we were lifted up beyond all fears
Lost in the Infinite divinely free
As song made us forget the passing years
And thrilled the soul with immortality. 

A wave far out upon the smiling blue
Looks faint at first on Ocean's dimpled floor
But strengthens as it hastens to the shore
Where all its power and meaning come to view
As on it sweeps with crest of snowy hue
Amidst the seething floods and wild uproar
Of mighty billows striving evermore
To make the self-same goal so old yet new.
Now brighter prouder rolls the swelling wave
With flashing curve straight for the land
And aiming high for glory or the grave
It pours its mighty waters on the strand
In one resounding paean strong and brave
It rings its triumph o'er the golden sand. 

I watch the purpling sea with wistful eyes
Just as the sun goes down upon the bay
And throws a path of gold across the way
While all the heavens flush in sunset's dyes
Then beacons burn like stars in darkling skies
The bay grows dim and fancy turns at last
To see the lights that glorified the Past
From shores of Time in solemn beauty rise.
O shining host more beautiful to me
Than any constellation in my sight!
No path of gold can light life's troubled sea
Like those bright lives that starred its long long Night
The beacons of our own humanity
Forever holding up the living Light. 

With classic beauty both of form and face
An actress charmed the stage
but more by art
The power and passion of a mighty heart
With magic of her voice and matchless grace:
She threw a spell upon her age and race
Till Love unbidden came and played his part
And she who erstwhile had escaped his dart
Renounced her triumphs for a humbler place.
And now the foxlights fade and soft blue skies
Look down on English lawns where one still fair
Amid her flowers now smiles with happy eyes
And whispers o'er a child she fondles there
Dear boy this is the light and peace I prize
And would not change for all the world's bright glare.

Man rises from the dark encircling night
And feels a Power eternal everywhere
As hidden as the germs that haunt the air
But when he knows that mighty One aright
That Nature forces on his inward sight
He can but kneel in adoration there
Built temples to the skies and breathe a prayer
To keep forever moving towards the Light.
Blessed is he who carries in his heart
A God a pure ideal he obeys
Ideal of Virtue Science or of Art
And strives to reach its heaven all his days
The source of Action's greater nobler part
The Infinite revealed in human ways. 

Del Sarto saw some beauty everywhere
But when Love came and threw his fateful dart
There was a face so graven on his heart
It never lost its fadeless glory there
For her his wife his model and despair
He sacrificed both fortune and his art
And though he found her wayward couild not part
From one he loved and found forever fair.
O Faultless Painter with what matchless grace
Your fair Madonna beams on all below!
There shine the lineaments you loved to trace
From your Lucrezia centuries ago
A glory given to a human face
As fair and heavenly as earth can show. 

I catch a glimpse of Beauty here and there
But there's a face that Heaven conceals from me
Who try to paint the fancy that I see
Which in imagination shines so fair
But when I view the canvas poor and bare
Where all my brightest dreams fade utterly
I feel my art is wed to poverty
And gaze upon my picture in despair.
I strive and strive to reach some form divine
Expressing all that's fairest in the soul
But like the waves that proudly sweep the brine
For higher shores but break and backwards roll
My baffled efforts meet a sad decline
And never reach Perfection's shining goal. 

How small the path we leave behind will be
When we have climbed the mountain's lofty crest!
And when we reach the summit's bracing rest
What broader views will rise interminably!
For earth's small things how little will care we
Finding the toilsome road with visions blest--
The peace and golden glory of the West
And skies that breathe of life's Infinity!
For we shall then forget the wounds and pain
Our weary feet have suffered on the way
For twilight's gold will glorify the plain
And thorn and bramble blend with blossoms gay
While we look down on clouds and shadows vain
Lost in a light diviner than the day.

She ruled in beauty o'er this heart of mine
A noble lady in a humble home
And now her time for heavenly bliss has come
'Tis I am mortal proved and she divine.
The soul that all its blessings must resign
And love whose light no more on earth finds room
Might rend the rocks with pity for their doom
Yet none their sorrows can in words enshrine
They weep within my heart
and ears are deaf
Save mine alone and I am crushed with care
And naught remains to me save mournful breath.
Assuredly but dust and shade we are
Assuredly desire is blind and brief
Assuredly its hope but ends in death. 

Doth any maiden seek the glorious fame
Of chastity of strength of courtesy?
Gaze in the eyes of that sweet enemy
Whom all the world doth as my lady name!
How honour grows and pure devotion's flame
How truth is joined with graceful dignity
There thou may'st learn and what the path may be
To that high heaven which doth her spirit claim
There learn soft speech beyond all poet's skill
And softer silence and those holy ways
Unutterable untold by human heart.
But the infinite beauty that all eyes doth fill
This none can copy! since its lovely rays
Are given by God's pure grace and not by art. 

Those eyes 'neath which my passionate rapture rose
The arms hands feet the beauty that erewhile
Could my own soul from its own self beguile
And in a separate world of dreams enclose
The hair's bright tresses full of golden glows
And the soft lightning of the angelic smile
That changed this earth to some celestial isle
Are now but dust poor dust that nothing knows.
And yet I live! Myself I grieve and scorn
Left dark without the light I loved in vain
Adrift in tempest on a bark forlorn
Dead is the source of all my amorous strain
Dry is the channel of my thoughts outworn
And my sad harp can sound but notes of pain. 

A Sonnet is a moment's monument
Memorial from the Soul's eternity
To one dead deathless hour. Look that it be
Whether for lustral rite or dire portent
Of its own arduous fulness reverent:
Carve it in ivory or in ebony
As Day or Night may rule
and let Time see
Its Powering crest impearled and orient.
A Sonnet is a coin: its face reveals
The soul--its converse to what Power 'tis due:--
Whether for tribute to the august appeals
Of Life or dower in Love's high retinue
It serve or 'mid the dark wharf's cavernous breath
In Charon's palm it pay the toll to Death. 

I marked all kindred Powers the heart finds fair:--
Truth with awed lips
and Hope with eyes upcast
And Fame whose loud wings fan the ashen Past
To signal-fires Oblivion's flight to scare
And Youth with still some single golden hair
Unto his shoulder clinging since the last
Embrace wherein two sweet arms held him fast
And Life still wreathing flowers for Death to wear.
Love's throne was not with these
but far above
All passionate wind of welcome and farewell
He sat in breathless bowers they dream not of
Though Truth foreknow Love's heart and Hope foretell
And Fame be for Love's sake desirable
And Youth be dear and Life be sweet to Love.

As when desire long darkling dawns and first
The mother looks upon the newborn child
Even so my Lady stood at gaze and smiled
When her soul knew at length the Love it nursed.
Born with her life creature of poignant thirst
And exquisite hunger at her heart Love lay
Quickening in darkness till a voice that day
Cried on him and the bonds of birth were burst.
Now shielded in his wings our faces yearn
Together as his fullgrown feet now range
The grove and his warm hands our couch prepare:
Till to his song our bodiless souls in turn
Be born his children when Death's nuptial change
Leaves us for light the halo of his hair. 

O thou who at Love's hour ecstatically
Unto my heart dost ever more present
Clothed with his fire thy heart his testament
Whom I have neared and felt thy breath to be
The inmost incense of his sanctuary
Who without speech hast owned him and intent
Upon his will thy life with mine hast blent
And murmured "I am thine thou'rt one with me!"
O what from thee the grace to me the prize
And what to Love the glory--when the whole
Of the deep stair thou tread'st to the dim shoal
And weary water of the place of sighs
And there dost work deliverance as thine eyes
Draw up my prisoned spirit to thy soul!

When do I see thee most beloved one?
When in the light the spirits of mine eyes
Before thy face their altar solemnize
The worship of that Love through thee made known?
Or when in the dusk hours (we two alone)
Close-kissed and eloquent of still replies
Thy twilight-hidden glimmering visage lies
And my soul only sees thy soul its own?
O love my love! if I no more should see
Thyself nor on the earth the shadow of thee
Nor image of thine eyes in any spring--
How then should sound upon Life's darkening slope
The ground-whirl of the perished leaves of Hope
The wind of Death's imperishable wing?

By what word's power the key of paths untrod
Shall I the difficult deeps of Love explore
Till parted waves of Song yield up the shore
Even as that sea which Israel crossed dryshod?
For lo! in some poor rhythmic period
Lady I fain would tell how evermore
Thy soul I know not from thy body nor
Thee from myself neither our love from God.
Yea in God's name and Love's and thine would I
Draw from one loving heart such evidence
As to all hearts all things shall signify
Tender as dawn's first hill-fire and intense
As instantaneous penetrating sense
In Spring's birth-hour of other Springs gone by. 

What smouldering senses in death's sick delay
Or seizure of malign vicissitude
Can rob this body of honour or denude
This soul of wedding-raiment worn to-day?
For lo! even now my lady's lips did play
With these my lips such consonant interlude
As laurelled Orpheus longed for when he wooed
The half-drawn hungering face with that last lay.
I was a child beneath her touch--a man
When breast to breast we clung even I and she--
A spirit when her spirit looked through me--
A god when all our life-breath met to fan
Our life-blood till love's emulous ardours ran
Fire within fire desire in deity.

At length their long kiss severed with sweet smart:
And as the last slow sudden drops are shed
From sparkling eaves when all the storm has fled
So singly flagged the pulses of each heart.
Their bosoms sundered with the opening start
Of married flowers to either side outspread
From the knit stem
yet still their mouths burnt red
Fawned on each other where they lay apart.
Sleep sank them lower than the tide of dreams
And their dreams watched them sink and slid away.
Slowly their souls swam up again through gleams
Of watered light and dull drowned waifs of day
Till from some wonder of new woods and streams
He woke and wondered more: for there she lay. 

To all the spirits of Love that wander by
Along his love-sown harvest-field of sleep
My lady lies apparent
and the deep
Calls to the deep
and no man sees but I.
The bliss so long afar at length so nigh
Rests there attained. Methinks proud Love must weep
When Fate's control doth from his harvest reap
The sacred hour for which the years did sigh.
First touched the hand now warm around my neck
Taught memory long to mock desire: and lo!
Across my breast the abandoned hair doth flow
Where one shorn tress long stirred the longing ache:
And next the heart that trembled for its sake
Lies the queen-heart in sovereign overthrow. 

Some ladies love the jewels in Love's zone
And gold-tipped darts he hath for painless play
In idle scornful hours he flings away
And some that listen to his lute's soft tone
Do love to vaunt the silver praise their own
Some prize his blindfold sight
and there be they
Who kissed his wings which brought him yesterday
And thank his wings today that he is flown.
My lady only loves the heart of Love:
Therefore Love's heart my lady hath for thee
His bower of unimagined flower and tree:
There kneels he now and all-anhungered of
Thine eyes grey-lit in shadowing hair above
Seals with thy mouth his immortality.

One flame-winged brought a white-winged harp-player
Even where my lady and I lay all alone
Saying: "Behold this minstrel is unknown
Bid him depart for I am minstrel here:
Only my strains are to Love's dear ones dear."
Then said I: "Through thine hautboy's rapturous tone
Unto my lady still this harp makes moan
And still she deems the cadence deep and clear."
Then said my lady: "Thou are Passion of Love
And this Love's Worship: both he plights to me.
Thy mastering music walks the sunlit sea:
But where wan water trembles in the grove
And the wan moon is all the light thereof
This harp still makes my name its voluntary." 

O Lord of all compassionate control
O Love! let this my lady's picture glow
Under my hand to praise her name and show
Even of her inner self the perfect whole:
That he who seeks her beauty's furthest goal
Beyond the light that the sweet glances throw
And refluent wave of the sweet smile may know
The very sky and sea-line of her soul.
Lo! it is done. Above the long lithe throat
The mouth's mould testifies of voice and kiss
The shadowed eyes remember and foresee.
Her face is made her shrine. Let all men note
That in all years (O Love thy gift is this!)
They that would look on her must come to me.

Warmed by her hand and shadowed by her hair
As close she leaned and poured her heart through thee
Whereof the articulate throbs accompany
The smooth black stream that makes thy whiteness fair--
Sweet fluttering sheet even of her breath aware--
Oh let thy silent song disclose to me
That soul wherewith her lips and eyes agree
Like married music in Love's answering air.
Fain had I watched her when at some fond thought
Her bosom to the writing closelier press'd
And her breast's secrets peered into her breast
When through eyes raised an instant her soul sought
My soul and from the sudden confluence caught
The words that made her love the loveliest. 

Sweet twining hedgeflowers wind-stirred in no wise
On this June day
and hand that clings in hand:--
Still glades
and meeting faces scarcely fann'd:--
An osier-odored stream that draws the skies
Deep to its heart
and mirrored eyes in eyes:--
Fresh hourly wonder o'er the Summer land
Of light and cloud
and two souls softly spann'd
With one o'erarching heaven of smiles and sighs:--
Even such their path whose bodies lean unto
Each other's visible sweetness amorously--
Whose passionate hearts lean by Love's high decree
Together on his heart for ever true
As the cloud-foaming firmamental blue
Rests on the blue line of a foamless sea.

"I love you sweet: how can you ever learn
How much I love you?" "You I love even so
And so I learn it." "Sweet you cannot know
How fair you are." "If fair enough to earn
Your love so much is all my love's concern.
"My love grows hourly sweet." "Mine too doth grow
Yet love seemed full so many hours ago!"
Thus lovers speak till kisses claim their turn.
Ah! happy they to whom such words as these
In youth have served for speech the whole day long
Hour after hour remote from the world's throng
Work contest fame all life's confederate pleas--
What while Love breathed in sighs and silences
Through two blent souls one rapturous undersong. 

On this sweet bank your head thrice sweet and dear
I lay and spread your hair on either side
And see the newborn woodflowers bashful-eyed
Look through the golden tresses here and there.
On these debateable borders of the year
Spring's foot half falters
scarce she yet may know
The leafless blackthorn-blossom from the snow
And through her bowers the wind's way still is clear.
But April's sun strikes down the glades to-day
So shut your eyes upturned and feel my kiss
Creep as the Spring now thrills through every spray
Up your warm throat to your warm lips: for this
Is even the hour of Love's sworn suitservice
With whom cold hearts are counted castaway.

Have you not noted in some family
Where two were born of a first marriage-bed
How still they own their gracious bond though fed
And nursed on the forgotten breast and knee?--
How to their father's children they shall be
In act and thought of one goodwill
but each
Shall for the other have in silence speech
And in a word complete community?
Even So when first l saw you seemed it love
That among souls allied to mine was yet
One nearer kindred than life hinted of.
O born with me somewhere that men forget
And though in years of sight and sound unmet
Known for my soul's birth-partner well enough!

Those envied places which do know her well
And are so scornful of this lonely place
Even now for once are emptied of her grace:
Nowhere but here she is: and while Love's spell
From his predominant presence doth compel
All alien hours an outworn populace
The hours of Love fill full the echoing space
With sweet confederate music favourable.
Now many memories make solicitous
The delicate love-lines of her mouth till lit
With quivering fire the words take wing from it
As here between our kisses we sit thus
Speaking of things remembered and so sit
Speechless while things forgotten call to us.

What dawn-pulse at the heart of heaven or last
Incarnate flower of culminating day--
What marshalled marvels on the skirts of May
Or song full-quired sweet June's encomiast
What glory of change by nature's hand amassed
Can vie with all those moods of varying grace
Which o'er one loveliest woman's form and face
Within this hour within this room have pass'd?
Love's very vesture and elect disguise
Was each fine movement--wonder new-begot
Of lily or swan or swan-stemmed galliot
Joy to his sight who now the sadlier sighs
Parted again
and sorrow yet for eyes
Unborn that read these words and saw her not.

Beauty like hers is genius. Not the call
Of Homer's or of Dante's heart sublime--
Not Michael's hand furrowing the zones of time--
Is more with compassed mysteries musical
Nay not in Spring's Summer's sweet footfall
More gathered gifts exuberant Life bequeaths
Than doth this sovereign face whose love-spell breathes
Even from its shadowed contour on the wall.
As many men are poets in their youth
But for one sweet-strung soul the wires prolong
Even through all change the indomitable song
So in likewise the envenomed years whose tooth
Rends shallower grace with ruin void of ruth
Upon this beauty's power shall wreak no wrong.

Your hands lie open in the long fresh grass--
The finger-points look through like rosy blooms:
Your eyes smile peace. The pasture gleams and glooms
'Neath billowing skies that scatter and amass.
All round our nest far as the eye can pass
Are golden kingcup-fields with silver edge
Where the cow-parsley skirts the hawthorn-hedge.
'Tis visible silence still as the hour-glass.
Deep in the sun-searched growths the dragon-fly
Hangs like a blue thread loosened from the sky:--
So this wing'd hour is dropt to us from above.
Oh! clasp we to our hearts for deathless dower
This close-companioned inarticulate hour
When twofold silence was the song of love.

Even as the moon grows queenlier in mid-space
When the sky darkens and her cloud-rapt car
Thrills with intenser radiance from afar--
So lambent lady beams thy sovereign grace
When the drear soul desires thee. Of that face
What shall be said--which like a governing star
Gathers and garners from all things that are
Their silent penetrative loveliness?
O'er water-daisies and wild waifs of Spring
There where the iris rears its gold-crowned sheaf
With flowering rush and sceptred arrow-leaf
So have I marked Queen Dian in bright ring
Of cloud above and wave below take wing
And chase night's gloom as thou the spirit's grief.

Sweet dimness of her loosened hair's downfall
About thy face
her sweet hands round thy head
In gracious fostering union garlanded
Her tremulous smiles
her glances' sweet recall
Of love
her murmuring sighs memorial
Her mouth's culled sweetness by thy kisses shed
On cheeks and neck and eyelids and so led
Back to her mouth which answers there for all:--
What sweeter than these things except the thing
In lacking which all these would lose their sweet:--
The confident heart's still fervour
the swift beat
And soft subsidence of the spirit's wing
Then when it feels in cloud-girt wayfaring
The breath of kindred plumes against its feet?

Sometimes she is a child within mine arms
Cowering beneath dark wing that love must chase--
With still tears showering and averted face
Inexplicably filled with faint alarms:
And oft from mine own spirit's hurtling harms
I crave the refuge of her deep embrace--
Against all ills the fortified strong place
And sweet reserve of sovereign counter-charms.
And Love our light at night and shade at noon
Lulls us to rest with songs and turns away
All shafts of shelterless tumultuous day.
Like the moon's growth his face gleams through his tune
And as soft waters warble to the moon
Our answering spirits chime one roundelay.

I stood where Love in brimming armfuls bore
Slight wanton flowers and foolish toys of fruit:
And round him ladies thronged in warm pursuit
Fingered and lipped and proffered the strange store.
And from one hand the petal and the core
Savored of sleep
and cluster and curled shoot
Seemed from another hand like shame's salute--
Gifts that I felt my cheek was blushing for.
At last Love bade my Lady give the same:
And as I looked the dew was light thereon
And as I took them at her touch they shone
With inmost heaven-hue of the heart of flame.
And then Love said: "Lo! when the hand is hers
Follies of love are love's true ministers." 

Even as a child of sorrow that we give
The dead but little in his heart can find
Since without need of thought to his clear mind
Their turn it is to die and his to live:--
Even so the winged New Love smiles to receive
Along his eddying plumes the auroral wind
Nor forward glorying casts one look behind
Where night-rack shrouds the Old Love fugitive.
There is a change in every hour's recall
And the last cowslip in the fields we see
On the same day with the first corn-poppy.
Alas for hourly change! Alas for all
The loves that from his hand proud Youth lets fall
Even as the beads of a told rosary!

Each hour until we meet is as a bird
That wings from far his gradual way along
The rustling covert of my soul--his song
Still loudlier trilled through leaves more deeply stirr'd:
But at the hour of meeting a clear word
Is every note he sings in Love's own tongue
Yet Love thou know'st the sweet strain suffers wrong
Full oft through our contending joys unheard.
What of that hour at last when for her sake
No wing may fly to me nor song may flow
When wandering round my life unleaved I know
The bloodied feathers scattered in the brake
And think how she far from me with like eyes
Sees through the untuneful bough the wingless skies? 

Thou lovely and beloved thou my love
Whose kiss seems still the first
whose summoning eyes
Even now as for our love-world's new sunrise
Shed very dawn
whose voice attuned above
All modulation of the deep-bowered dove
Is like a hand laid softy on the soul
Whose hand is like a sweet voice to control
Those worn tired brows it hath the keeping of:--
What word can answer to thy word--what gaze
To thine which now absorbs within its sphere
My worshipping face till I am mirrored there
Light-circled in a heaven of deep-drawn rays?
What clasp what kiss mine inmost heart can prove
O lovely and beloved O my love?

Sometimes thou seem'st not as thyself alone
But as the meaning of all things that are
A breathless wonder shadowing forth afar
Some heavenly solstice hushed and halcyon
Whose unstirred lips are music's visible tone
Whose eyes the sun-gate of the soul unbar
Being of its furthest fires oracular
The evident heart of all life sown and mown.
Even such Love is
and is not thy name Love?
Yea by thy hand the Love-god rends apart
All gathering clouds of Night's ambiguous art
Flings them far down and sets thine eyes above
And simply as some gage of flower or glove
Stakes with a smile the world against thy heart.

What other woman could be loved like you
Or how of you should love possess his fill?
After the fulness of all rapture still--
As at the end of some deep avenue
A tender glamour of day--there comes to view
Far in your eyes a yet more hungering thrill
Such fire as Love's soul-winnowing hands distil
Even from his inmost ark of light and dew.
And as the traveller triumphs with the sun
Glorying in heat's mid-height yet startide brings
Wonder new-born and still fresh transport springs
From limpid lambent hours of day begun
Even so through eyes and voice your soul doth move
My soul with changeful light of infinite love. 

Lady I thank thee for thy loveliness
Because my lady is more lovely still.
Glorying I gaze and yield with glad goodwill
To thee thy tribute
by whose sweet-spun dress
Of delicate life Love labours to assess
My lady's absolute queendom
saying "Lo!
How high this beauty is which yet doth show
But as that beauty's sovereign votaress."
Lady I saw thee with her side by side
And as when night's fair fires their queen surround
An emulous star too near the moon will ride--
Even so thy rays within her luminous bound
Were traced no more
and by the light so drowned
Lady not thou but she was glorified. 

Love through your spirit and mine what summer eve
Now glows with glory of all things possess'd
Since this day's sun of rapture filled the west
And the light sweetened as the fire took leave?
Awhile now softlier let your bosom heave
As in Love's harbor even that loving breast
All care takes refuge while we sink to rest
And mutual dreams the bygone bliss retrieve.
Many the days that Winter keeps in store
Sunless throughout or whose brief sun-glimpses
Scarce shed the heaped snow through the naked trees.
This day at least was Summer's paramour
Sun-colored to the imperishable core
With sweet well-being of love and full heart's ease.

High grace the dower of queens
and therewithal
Some wood-born wonder's sweet simplicity
A glance like water brimming with the sky
Or hyacinth-light where forest-shadows fall
Such thrilling pallor of cheek as doth enthral
The heart
a mouth whose passionate forms imply
All music and all silence held thereby
Deep golden locks her sovereign coronal
A round reared neck meet column of Love's shrine
To cling to when the heart takes sanctuary
Hands which for ever at Love's bidding be
And soft-stirred feet still answering to his sign:--
These are her gifts as tongue may tell them o'er.

Breathe low her name my soul
for that means more. Equal Troth
Not by one measure mayst thou mete our love
For how should I be loved as I love thee?--
I graceless joyless lacking absolutely
All gifts that with thy queenship best behove
Thou throned in every heart's elect alcove
And crowned with garlands culled from every tree
Which for no head but thine by Love's decree
All beauties and all mysteries interwove.
But here thine eyes and lips yield soft rebuke:--
"Then only" (say'st thou) "could I love thee less
When thou couldst doubt my love's equality."
Peace sweet! If not to sum but worth we look--
Thy heart's transcendence not my heart's excess--
Then more a thousandfold thou lov'st than I.

Could Juno's self more sovereign presence wear
Than thou 'mid other ladies throned in grace?--
Or Pallas when thou bend'st with soul-stilled face
O'er poet's page gold-shadowed in thy hair?
Dost thou than Venus seem less heavenly fair
When o'er the sea of love's tumultous trance
Hovers thy smile and mingles with thy glance
That sweet voice like the last wave murmuring there?
Before such triune loveliness divine
Awestruck I ask which goddess here most claims
The prize that howsoe'er adjudged is thine?
Then Love breathes low the sweetest of thy names
And Venus Victrix to my heart doth bring
Herself the Helen of thy guerdoning. 

Not I myself know all my love for thee:
How should I reach so far who cannot weigh
To-morrow's dower by gage of yesterday?
Shall birth and death and all dark names that be
As doors and windows bared to some loud sea
Lash deaf mine ears and blind my face with spray
And shall my sense pierce love--the last relay
And ultimate outpost of eternity?
Lo! what am I to Love the lord of all?
One murmuring shell he gathers from the sand--
One little heart-flame sheltered in his hand.
Yet through thine eyes he grants me clearest call
And veriest touch of powers primordial
That any hour-girt life may understand. 

Sometimes I fain would find in thee some fault
That I might love thee still in spite of it:
Yet how should our Lord Love curtail one whit
Thy perfect praise whom most he would exalt?
Alas! he can but make my heart's low vault
Even in men's sight unworthier being lit
By thee who thereby show'st more exquisite
Like fiery chrysoprase in deep basalt
Yet will I nowise shrink
but at Love's shrine
Myself within the beams his brow doth dart
Will set the flashing jewel of thy heart
In that dull chamber where it deigns to shine:
For lo! in honor of thine excellencies
My heart takes pride to show how poor it is. 

Not in thy body is thy life at all
But in this lady's lips and hands and eyes
Through these she yields thee life that vivifies
What else were sorrow's servant and death's thrall.
Look on thyself without her and recall
The waste remembrance and forlorn surmise
That lived but in a dead-drawn breath of sighs
O'er vanished hours and hours eventual.
Even so much life hath the poor tress of hair
Which stored apart is all love hath to show
For heart-beats and for fire-heats long ago
Even so much life endures unknown even where
'Mid change the changeless night environeth
Lies all that golden hair undimmed in death. 

'When that dead face bowered in the furthest years
Which once was all the life years held for thee
Can now scarce bid the tides of memory
Cast on thy soul a little spray of tears--
How canst thou gaze into these eyes of hers
Whom now thy heart delights in and not see
Within each orb Love's philtred euphrasy
Make them of buried troth remembrancers?'
'Nay pitiful Love nay loving Pity! Well
Thou knowest that in these twain I have confess'd
Two very voices of thy summoning bell.
Nay Master shall not Death make manifest
In these the culminant changes which approve
The love-moon that must light my soul to Love?' 

"Thou Ghost" I said "and is thy name To-day?--
Yesterday's son with such an abject brow!--
And can To-morrow be more pale than thou?"
White yet I spoke the silence answered: "Yea
Henceforth our issue is all grieved and grey
And each beforehand makes such poor avow
As of old leaves beneath the budding bough
Or night-drift that the sundawn shreds away."
Then cried I: "Mother of many malisons
O Earth receive me to thy dusty bed!"
But therewithal the tremulous silence said:
"Lo! Love yet bids thy lady greet thee once:--
Yea twice--whereby thy life is still the sun's
And thrice--whereby the shadow of death is dead." 

Girt in dark growths yet glimmering with one star
O night desirous as the nights of youth!
Why should my heart within thy spell forsooth
Now beat as the bride's finger-pulses are
Quickened within the girdling golden bar?
What wings are these that fan my pillow smooth?
And why does Sleep waved back by Joy and Ruth
Tread softly round and gaze at me from far?
Nay night deep-leaved! And would Love feign in thee
Some shadowy palpitating grove that bears
Rest for man's eyes and music for his ears?
O lonely night! art thou not known to me
A thicket hung with masks of mockery
And watered with the wasteful warmth of tears? 

Two separate divided silences
Which brought together would find loving voice
Two glances which together would rejoice
In love now lost like stars beyond dark trees
Two hands apart whose touch alone gives ease
Two bosoms which heart-shrined with mutual flame
Would meeting in one clasp be made the same
Two souls the shores wave-mocked of sundering seas:--
Such are we now. Ah! may our hope forecast
Indeed one hour again when on this stream
Of darkened love once more the light shall gleam?--
An hour how slow to come how quickly past--
Which blooms and fades and only leaves at last
Faint as shed flowers the attenuated dream.

Like labour-laden moonclouds faint to flee
From winds that sweep the winter-bitten wold--
Like multiform circumfluence manifold
Of night's flood-tide--like terrors that agree
Of hoarse-tongued fire and inarticulate sea--
Even such within some glass dimmed by our breath
Our hearts discern wild images of Death
Shadows and shoals that edge eternity.
Howbeit athwart Death's imminent shade doth soar
One Power than flow of stream or flight of dove
Sweeter to glide around to brood above.
Tell me my heart--what angel-greeted door
Or threshold of wing-winnowed threshing-floor
Hath guest fire-fledged as thine whose lord is Love? 

I deemed thy garments O my Hope were gray
So far I viewed thee. Now the space between
Is passed at length
and garmented in green
Even as in days of yore thou stand'st to-day.
Ah God! and but for lingering dull dismay
On all that road our footsteps erst had been
Even thus commingled and our shadows seen
Blent on the hedgerows and the water-way.
O Hope of mine whose eyes are living love
No eyes but hers O Love and Hope the same!--
Lean close to me for now the sinking sun
That warmed our feet scarce gilds our hair above.
O hers thy voice and very hers thy name!
Alas cling round me for the day is done! 

Bless love and hope. Full many a withered year
Whirled past us eddying to its chill doomsday
And clasped together where the blown leaves lay
We long have knelt and wept full many a tear.
Yet lo! one hour at last the Spring's compeer
Flutes softly to us from some green byeway:
Those years those tears are dead but only they:--
Bless love and hope true soul
for we are here.
Cling heart to heart
nor of this hour demand
Whether in very truth when we are dead
Our hearts shall wake to know Love's golden head
Sole sunshine of the imperishable land
Or but discern through night's unfeatured scope
Scorn-fired at length the illusive eyes of Hope. 

Love should I fear death most for you or me?
Yet if you die can I not follow you
Forcing the straits of change? Alas! but who
Shall wrest a bond from night's inveteracy
Ere yet my hazardous soul put forth to be
Her warrant against all her haste might rue
Ah! in your eyes so reached what dumb adieu--
What unsunned gyres of waste eternity ?
And if I die the first shall death be then
A lampless watchtower whence I see you weep?
Or (woe is me!--a bed wherein my sleep
Ne'er notes (as death's dear cup at last you drain)
The hour when you too learn that all is vain
And that Hope sows what Love shall never reap? 

Because our talk was of the cloud-control
And moon-track of the journeying face of Fate
Her tremulous kisses faltered at love's gate
And her eyes dreamed against a distant goal:
But soon remembering her how brief the whole
Of joy which its own hours annihilate
Her set gaze gathered thirstier than of late
And as she kissed her mouth became her soul.
Thence in what ways we wandered and how strove
To build with fire-tried vows the piteous home
Which memory haunts and whither sleep may roam--
They only know for whom the roof of Love
Is the still-seated secret of the grove
Nor spire may rise nor bell be heard therefrom. 

What shall be said of this embattled day
And armed occupation of this night
By all thy foes beleaguered--now when sight
Nor sound denotes the loved one far away?
Of these thy vanquished hours what shalt thou say--
As every sense to which she dealt delight
Now labours lonely o'er the stark noon-height
To reach the sunset's desolate disarray?
Stand still fond fettered wretch! while Memory's art
Parades the Past before thy face and lures
Thy spirit to her passionate portraitures:
Till the tempestuous tide-gates flung apart
Flood with wild will the hollows of thy heart
And thy heart rends thee and thy body endures.

The mother will not turn who thinks she hears
Her nursling's speech first grow articulate
But breathless with averted eyes elate
She sits with open lips and open ears
That it may call her twice. 'Mid doubts and fears
Thus oft my soul has hearkened
till the song
A central moan for days at length found tongue.
And the sweet music welled and the sweet tears.
But now whatever while the soul is fain
To list that wonted murmur as it were
The speech-bound sea-shell's low importunate strain--
No breath of song thy voice alone is there
O bitterly beloved! and all her gain
Is but the pang of unpermitted prayer. 

There came an image in Life's retinue
That had Love's wings and bore his gonfalon:
Fair was the web and nobly wrought thereon
O soul-sequestered face thy form and hue!
Bewildering sounds such as Spring wakens to
Shook in its folds
and through my heart its power
Sped trackless as the immemorable hour
When birth's dark portal groaned and all was new.
But a veiled woman followed and she caught
The banner round its staff to furl and cling--
Then plucked a feather from the bearer's wing
And held it to his lips that stirred it not
And said to me "Behold there is no breath:
I and this Love are one and I am Death." 

I sat with Love upon a woodside well
Leaning across the water I and he
Nor ever did he speak nor looked at me
But touched his lute wherein was audible
The certain secret thing he had to tell:
Only our mirrored eyes met silently
In the low wave
and that sound came to be
The passionate voice I knew
and my tears fell.
And at their fall his eyes beneath grew hers
And with his foot and with his wing-feathers
He swept the spring that watered my heart's drouth.
Then the dark ripples spread to waving hair
And as I stooped her own lips rising there
Bubbled with brimming kisses at my mouth. 

And now Love sang: but his was such a song
So meshed with half-remembrance hard to free
As souls disused in death's sterility
May sing when the new birthday tarries long.
And I was made aware of a dumb throng
That stood aloof one form by every tree
All mournful forms for each was I or she
The shades of those our days that had no tongue.
They looked on us and knew us and were known
While fast together alive from the abyss
Clung the soul-wrung implacable close kiss
And pity of self through all made broken moan
Which said 'For once for once for once alone!'
And still Love sang and what he sang was this:-- 

'O ye all ye that walk in Willowwood
That walk with hollow faces burning white
What fathom-depth of soul-struck widowhood
What long what longer hours one lifelong night
Ere ye again who so in vain have wooed
Your last hope lost who so in vain invite
Your lips to that their unforgotten food
Ere ye ere ye again shall see the light!
Alas! the bitter banks in Willowwood
With tear-spurge wan with blood-wort burning red:
Alas! if ever such a pillow could
Steep deep the soul in sleep till she were dead
Better all life forget her than this thing
That Willowwood should hold her wandering!' 

So sang he: and as meeting rose and rose
Together cling through the wind's wellaway
Nor change at once yet near the end of day
The leaves drop loosened where the heart-stain glows--
So when the song died did the kiss unclose
And her face fell back drowned and was as grey
As its grey eyes
and if it ever may
Meet mine again I know not if Love knows.
Only I know that I leaned low and drank
A long draught from the water where she sank
Her breath and all her tears and all her soul:
And as I leaned I know I felt Love's face
Pressed on my neck with moan of pity and grace
Till both our heads were in his aureole. 

What of her glass without her? The blank grey
There where the pool is blind of the moon's face.
Her dress without her? The tossed empty space
Of cloud-rack whence the moon has passed away.
Her paths without her? Day's appointed sway
Usurped by desolate night. Her pillowed place
Without her? Tears ah me! for love's good grace
And cold forgetfulness of night or day.
What of the heart without her? Nay poor heart
Of thee what word remains ere speech be still?
A wayfarer by barren ways and chill
Steep ways and weary without her thou art
Where the long cloud the long wood's counterpart
Sheds doubled darkness up the laboring hill. 

Sweet Love but oh! most dread Desire of Love
Life-thwarted. Linked in gyves I saw them stand
Love shackled with Vain-longing hand to hand:
And one was eyed as the blue vault above:
But hope tempestuous like a fire-cloud hove
I' the other's gaze even as in his whose wand
Vainly all night with spell-wrought power has spann'd
The unyielding caves of some deep treasure-trove.
Also his lips two writhen flakes of flame
Made moan: "Alas O Love thus leashed with me!
Wing-footed thou wing-shouldered once born free:
And I thy cowering self in chains grown tame--
Bound to thy body and soul named with thy name--
Life's iron heart even Love's Fatality." 

The hour which might have been yet might not be
Which man's and woman's heart conceived and bore
Yet whereof life was barren--on what shore
Bides it the breaking of Time's weary sea?
Bondchild of all consummate joys set free
It somewhere sighs and serves and mute before
The house of Love hears through the echoing door
His hours elect in choral consonancy.
But lo! what wedded souls now hand in hand
Together tread at last the immortal strand
With eyes where burning memory lights love home?
Lo! how the little outcast hour has turned
And leaped to them and in their faces yearned:
"I am your child: O parents ye have come!"

To be a Sweetness more desired than Spring
A bodily beauty more acceptable
Than the wild rose-tree's arch that crowns the fell
To be an essence more environing
Than wine's drained juice
a music ravishing
More than the passionate pulse of Philomel
To be all this 'neath one soft bosom's swell
That is the flower of life:--how strange a thing!
How strange a thing to be what Man can know
But as a sacred secret! Heaven's own screen
Hides her soul's purest depth and loveliest glow
Closely withheld as all things most unseen
The wave-bowered pearl--the heart-shaped seal of green
That flecks the snowdrop underneath the snow.

She loves him
for her infinite soul is Love
And he her lodestar. Passion in her is
A glass facing his fire where the bright bliss
Is mirrored and the heat returned. Yet move
That glass a stranger's amorous flame to prove
And it shall turn by instant contraries
Ice to the moon
while her pure fire to his
For whom it burns clings close i' the heart's alcove.
Lo! they are one. With wifely breast to breast
And circling arms she welcomes all command
Of love--her soul to answering ardours fann'd:
Yet as morn springs or twilight sinks to rest
Ah! who shall say she deems not loveliest
The hour of sisterly sweet hand-in-hand? 

If to grow old in Heaven is to grow young
(As the Seer saw and said) then blest were he
With youth for evermore whose heaven should be
True Woman she whom these weak notes have sung.
Here and hereafter--choir-strains of her tongue--
Sky-spaces of her eyes--sweet signs that flee
About her soul's immediate sanctuary--
Were Paradise all uttermost worlds among.
The sunrise blooms and withers on the hill
Like any hillflower
and the noblest troth
Dies here to dust. Yet shall Heaven's promise clothe
Even yet those lovers who have cherished still
This test for love:--in every kiss sealed fast
To feel the first kiss and forbode the last.

Love to his singer held a glistening leaf
And said: "The rose-tree and the apple-tree
Have fruits to vaunt or flowers to lure the bee
And golden shafts are in the feathered sheaf
Of the great harvest-marshal the year's chief
Victorious Summer
aye and 'neath warm sea
Strange secret grasses lurk inviolably
Between the filtering channels of sunk reef.
All are my blooms
and all sweet blooms of love
To thee I gave while Spring and Summer sang
But Autumn stops to listen with some pang
From those worse things the wind is moaning of.
Only this laurel dreads no winter days:
Take my last gift
thy heart hath sung my praise." 

As growth of form or momentary glance
In a child's features will recall to mind
The father's with the mother's face combin'd--
Sweet interchange that memories still enhance:
And yet as childhood's years and youth's advance
The gradual mouldings leave one stamp behind
Till in the blended likeness now we find
A separate man's or woman's countenance:--
So in the Song the singer's Joy and Pain
Its very parents evermore expand
To bid the passion's fullgrown birth remain
By Art's transfiguring essence subtly spann'd
And from that song-cloud shaped as a man's hand
There comes the sound as of abundant rain. 

By thine own tears thy song must tears beget
O Singer! Magic mirror thou hast none
Except thy manifest heart
and save thine own
Anguish or ardour else no amulet.
Cisterned in Pride verse is the feathery jet
Of soulless air-flung fountains
nay more dry
Than the Dead Sea for throats that thirst and sigh
That song o'er which no singer's lids grew wet.
The Song-god--He the Sun-god--is no slave
Of thine: thy Hunter he who for thy soul
Fledges his shaft: to no august control
Of thy skilled hand his quivered store he gave:
But if thy lips' loud cry leap to his smart
The inspir'd recoil shall pierce thy brother's heart. 

Some prisoned moon in steep cloud-fastnesses--
Throned queen and thralled
some dying sun whose pyre
Blazed with momentous memorable fire
Who hath not yearned and fed his heart with these?
Who sleepless hath not anguished to appease
Tragical shadow's realm of sound and sight
Conjectured in the lamentable night? . . .
Lo! the soul's sphere of infinite images!
What sense shall count them? Whether it forecast
The rose-winged hours that flutter in the van
Of Love's unquestioning unrevealed span--
Visions of golden futures: or that last
Wild pageant of the accumulated past
That clangs and flashes for a drowning man. 

The changing guests each in a different mood
Sit at the roadside table and arise:
And every life among them in likewise
Is a soul's board set daily with new food.
What man has bent o'er his son's sleep to brood
How that face shall watch his when cold it lies?--
Or thought as his own mother kissed his eyes
Of what her kiss was when his father wooed?
May not this ancient room thou sit'st in dwell
In separate living souls for joy or pain?
Nay all its corners may be painted plain
Where Heaven shows pictures of some life Spent well
And may be stamped a memory all in vain
Upon the sight of lidless eyes in Hell. 

The cuckoo-throb the heartbeat of the Spring
The rosebud's blush that leaves it as it grows
Into the full-eyed fair unblushing rose
The summer clouds that visit every wing
With fires of sunrise and of sunsetting
The furtive flickering streams to light re-born
'Mid airs new-fledged and valorous lusts of morn
While all the daughters of the daybreak sing:--
These ardor loves and memory: and when flown
All joys and through dark forest-boughs in flight
The wind swoops onward brandishing the light
Even yet the rose-tree's verdure left alone
Will flush all ruddy though the rose be gone
With ditties and with dirges infinite. 

As two whose love first foolish widening scope
Knows suddenly with music high and soft
The Holy of holies
who because they scoff'd
Are now amazed with shame nor dare to cope
With the whole truth aloud lest heaven should ope
Yet at their meetings laugh not as they laugh'd
In speech
nor speak at length
but sitting oft
Together within hopeless sight of hope
For hours are silent:--So it happeneth
When Work and Will awake too late to gaze
After their life sailed by and hold their breath.
Ah! who shall dare to search through what sad maze
Thenceforth their incommunicable ways
Follow the desultory feet of Death? 

From child to youth
from youth to arduous man
From lethargy to fever of the heart
Prom faithful life to dream-dowered days apart
From trust to doubt
from doubt to brink of ban
--
Thus much of change in one swift cycle ran
Till now. Alas the soul!--how soon must she
Accept her primal immortality--
The flesh resume its dust whence it began?
O Lord of work and peace! O Lord of life!
O Lord the awful Lord of will! though late
Even yet renew this soul with duteous breath:
That when the peace is garnered in from strife
The work retrieved the will regenerate
This soul may see thy face O Lord of death 

Was that the landmark? What--the foolish well
Whose wave low down I did not stoop to drink
But sat and flung the pebbles from its brink
In sport to send its imaged skies pell-mell
(And mine own image had I noted well!)--
Was that my point of turning?--I had thought
The stations of my course should rise unsought
As altar-stone or ensigned citadel.
But lo! the path is missed I must go back
And thirst to drink when next I reach the spring
Which once I stained which since may have grown black.
Yet though no light be left nor bird now sing
As here I turn I'll thank God hastening
That the same goal is still on the same track.

The gloom that breathes upon me with these airs
Is like the drops which strike the traveller's brow
Who knows not darkling if they bring him now
Fresh storm or be old rain the covert bears.
Ah! bodes this hour some harvest of new tares
Or hath but memory of the day whose plough
Sowed hunger once--the night at length when thou
O prayer found vain didst fall from out my prayers?
How prickly were the growths which yet how smooth
Along the hedgerows of this journey shed
Lie by Time's grace till night and sleep may soothe!
Even as the thistledown from pathsides dead
Gleaned by a girl in autumns of her youth
Which one new year makes soft her marriage-bed. 

This sunlight shames November where he grieves
In dead red leaves and will not let him shun
The day though bough with bough be over-run.
But with a blessing every glade receives
High salutation
while from hillock-eaves
The deer gaze calling dappled white and dun
As if being foresters of old the sun
Had marked them with the shade of forest-leaves.
Here dawn to-day unveiled her magic glass
Here noon now gives the thirst and takes the dew
Till eve bring rest when other good things pass.
And here the lost hours the lost hours renew
While I still lead my shadow o'er the grass
Nor know for longing that which I should do.

This feast-day of the sun his altar there
In the broad west has blazed for vesper-song
And I have loitered in the vale too long
And gaze now a belated worshipper.
Yet may I not forget that I was 'ware
So journeying of his face at intervals
Transfigured where the fringed horizon falls
A fiery bush with coruscating hair.
And now that I have climbed and won this height
I must tread downward through the sloping shade
And travel the bewildered tracks till night.
Yet for this hour I still may here be stayed
And see the gold air and the silver fade
And the last bird fly into the last light.

Eat thou and drink
to-morrow thou shalt die.
Surely the earth that's wise being very old
Needs not our help. Then loose me love and hold
Thy sultry hair up from my face
that I
May pour for thee this golden wine brim-high
Till round the glass thy fingers glow like gold.
We'll drown all hours: thy song while hours are toll'd
Shall leap as fountains veil the changing sky.
Now kiss and think that there are really those
My own high-bosomed beauty who increase
Vain gold vain lore and yet might choose our way!
Through many years they toil
then on a day
They die not--for their life was death--but cease
And round their narrow lips the mould falls close.

Watch thou and fear: to-morrow thou shalt die.
Or art thou sure thou shalt have time for death?
Is not the day which God's word promiseth
To come man knows not when? In yonder sky
Now while we speak the sun speeds forth: can I
Or thou assure him of his goal? God's breath
Even at the moment haply quickeneth
The air to a flame
till spirits always nigh
Though screened and hid shall walk the daylight here.
And dost thou prate of all that man shall do ?
Canst thou who hast but plagues presume to be
Glad in his gladness that comes after thee?
Will his strength slay thy worm in Hell ? Go to:
Cover thy countenance and watch and fear. 

Think thou and act
to-morrow thou shalt die.
Outstretched in the sun's warmth upon the shore
Thou say'st: 'Man's measured path is all gone o'er:
Up all his years steeply with strain and sigh
Man clomb until he touched the truth
and I
Even I am he whom it was destined for.'
How should this be? Art thou then so much more
Than they who sowed that thou shouldst reap thereby?
Nay come up hither. From this wave-washed mound
Unto the furthest flood-brim look with me
Then reach on with thy thought till it be drown'd.
Miles and miles distant though the grey line be.
And though thy soul sail leagues and leagues beyond
Still leagues beyond those leagues there is more sea.

Give honor unto Luke Evangelist
For he it was (the aged legends say)
Who first taught Art to fold her hands and pray.
Scarcely at once she dared to rend the mist
Of devious symbols: but soon having wist
How sky-breadth and field-silence and this day
Are symbols also in some deeper way
She looked through these to God and was God's priest.
And if past noon her toil began to irk
And she sought talismans and turned in vain
To soulless self-reflections of man's skill
Yet now in this the twilight she might still
Kneel in the latter grass to pray again
Ere the night cometh and she may not work. 

"I am not as these are" the poet saith
In youth's pride and the painter among men
At bay where never pencil comes nor pen
And shut about with his own frozen breath.
To others for whom only rhyme wins faith
As poets--only paint as painters--then
He turns in the cold silence
and again
Shrinking "I am not as these are" he saith.
And say that this is so what follows it?
For were thine eyes set backwards in thine head
Such words were well
but they see on and far.
Unto the lights of the great Past new-lit
Fair for the Future's track look thou instead--
Say thou instead "I am not as these are." 

Though God as one that is an householder
Called these to labor in His vineyard first
Before the husk of darkness was well burst
Bidding them grope their way out and bestir
(Who questioned of their wages answered "Sir
Unto each man a penny":) though the worst
Burthen of heat was theirs and the dry thirst:
Though God hath since found none such as these were
To do their work like them:--Because of this
Stand not ye idle in the market-place.
Which of ye knoweth he is not that last
Who may be first by faith and will?--yea his
The hand which after the appointed days
And hours shall give a Future to their Past?

Under the arch of Life where love and death
Terror and mystery guard her shrine I saw
Beauty enthroned
and though her gaze struck awe
I drew it in as simply as my breath.
Hers are the eyes which over and beneath
The sky and sea bend on thee--which can draw
By sea or sky or woman to one law
The allotted bondman of her palm and wreath.
This is that Lady Beauty in whose praise
Thy voice and hand shake still--long known to thee
By flying hair and fluttering hem--the beat
Following her daily of thy heart and feet
How passionately and irretrievably
In what fond flight how many ways and days! 

Of Adam's first wife Lilith it is told
(The witch he loved before the gift of Eve)
That ere the snake's her sweet tongue could deceive
And her enchanted hair was the first gold.
And still she sits young while the earth is old
And subtly of herself contemplative
Draws men to watch the bright net she can weave
Till heart and body and life are in its hold.
The rose and poppy are her flowers
for where
Is he not found O Lilith whom shed scent
And soft-shed kisses and soft sleep shall snare?
Lo! as that youth's eyes burned at thine so went
Thy spell through him and left his straight neck bent
And round his heart one strangling golden hair. 

Is it the moved air or the moving sound
That is Life's self and draws my life from me
And by instinct ineffable decree
Holds my breath quailing on the bitter bound?
Nay is it Life or Death thus thunder-crown'd
That 'mid the tide of all emergency
Now notes my separate wave and to what sea
Its difficult eddies labour in the ground?
Oh! what is this that knows the road I came
The flame turned cloud the cloud returned to flame
The lifted shifted steeps and all the way?--
That draws round me at last this wind-warm space
And in regenerate rapture turns my face
Upon the devious coverts of dismay? From Dawn to Noon
As the child knows not if his mother's face
Be fair
nor of his elders yet can deem
What each most is
but as of hill or stream
At dawn all glimmering life surrounds his place:
Who yet tow'rd noon of his half-weary race
Pausing awhile beneath the high sun-beam
And gazing steadily back--as through a dream
In things long past new features now can trace:--
Even so the thought that is at length fullgrown
Turns back to note the sun-smit paths all grey
And marvellous once where first it walked alone
And haply doubts amid the unblenching day
Which most or least impelled its onward way--
Those unknown things or these things overknown.

What place so strange--though unreveald snow
With unimaginable fires arise
At the earth's end--what passion of surprise
Like frost-bound fire-girt scenes of long ago?
Lo! this is none but I this hour
and lo!
This is the very place which to mine eyes
Those mortal hours in vain immortalize
'Mid hurrying crowds with what alone I know.
City of thine a single simple door
By some new Power reduplicate must be
Even yet my life-porch in eternity
Even with one presence filled as once of yore:
Or mocking winds whirl round a chaff-strown floor
Thee and thy years and these my words and me.

I said:--"Nay pluck not--let the first fruit be:
Even as thou sayest it is sweet and red
But let it ripen still. The tree's bent head
Sees in the stream its own fecundity
And bides the day of fulness. Shall not we
At the sun's hour that day possess the shade
And claim our fruit before its ripeness fade
And eat it from the branch and praise the tree?"
I say: "Alas! our fruit hath wooed the sun
Too long--'tis fallen and floats adown the stream.
Lo the last clusters! Pluck them every one
And let us sup with summer
ere the gleam
Of autumn set the year's pent sorrow free
And the woods wail like echoes from the sea."

Once more the changed year's turning wheel returns:
And as a girl sails balanced in the wind
And now before and now again behind
Stoops as it swoops with check that laughs and burns--
So Spring comes merry towards me here but earns
No answering smile from me whose life is twin'd
With the dead boughs that winter still must bind
And whom to-day the Spring no more concerns.
Behold this crocus is a withering flame
This snowdrop snow
this apple-blossom's part
To breed the fruit that breeds the serpent's art.
Nay for these Spring-flowers turn thy face from them
Nor stay till on the year's last lily-stem
The white cup shrivels round the golden heart. 

Sweet stream-fed glen why say "farewell" to thee
Who far'st so well and find'st for ever smooth
The brow of Time where man may read no ruth?
Nay do thou rather say "farewell" to me
Who now fare forth in bitterer fantasy
Than erst was mine where other shade might soothe
By other streams what while in fragrant youth
The bliss of being sad made melancholy.
And yet farewell! For better shalt thou fare
When children bathe sweet faces in thy flow
And happy lovers blend sweet shadows there
In hours to come than when an hour ago
Thine echoes had but one man's sighs to bear
And thy trees whispered what he feared to know. 

What is the sorriest thing that enters Hell?
None of the sins--but this and that fair deed
Which a soul's sin at length could supersede.
These yet are virgins whom death's timely knell
Might once have sainted
whom the fiends compel
Together now in snake-bound shuddering sheaves
Of anguish while the pit's pollution leaves
Their refuse maidenhood abominable.
Night sucks them down the tribute of the pit
Whose names half entered in the book of Life
Were God's desire at noon. And as their hair
And eyes sink last the Torturer deigns no whit
To gaze but yearning waits his destined wife
The Sin still blithe on earth that sent them there. 

The lost days of my life until to-day
What were they could I see them on the street
Lie as they fell? Would they be ears of wheat
Sown once for food but trodden into clay?
Or golden coins squandered and still to pay?
Or drops of blood dabbling the guilty feet?
Or such spilt water as in dreams must cheat
The throats of men in Hell who thirst alway?
I do not see them here
but after death
God knows I know the faces I shall see
Each one a murdered self with low last breath.
'I am thyself--what hast thou done to me?'
And I--and I--thyself' (lo! each one saith)
'And thou thyself to all eternity!' 

When first that horse within whose populous womb
The birth was death o'ershadowed Troy with fate
Her elders dubious of its Grecian freight
Brought Helen there to sing the songs of home:
She whispered 'Friends I am alone
come come!'
Then crouched within Ulysses waxed afraid
And on his comrades' quivering mouths he laid
His hands and held them till the voice was dumb.
The same was he who lashed to his own mast
There where the sea-flowers screen the charnel-caves
Beside the sirens' singing island pass'd
Till sweetness failed along the inveterate waves.
Say soul--are songs of Death no heaven to thee
Nor shames her lip the cheek of Victory? 

That lamp thou fill'st in Eros' name to-night
O Hero shall the Sestian augurs take
Tomorrow and for drowned Leander's sake
To Anteros its fireless lip shall plight.
Aye waft the unspoken vow: yet dawn's first light
On ebbing storm and life twice ebb'd must break
While 'neath no sunrise by the Avernian Lake
Lo where Love walks Death's pallid neophyte.
That lamp within Anteros' shadowy shrine
Shall stand unlit (for so the gods decree)
Till some one man the happy issue see
Of a life's love and bid its flame to shine:
Which still may rest unfir'd
for theirs or thine
O brother what brought love to them or thee? 

Ye who have passed Death's haggard hills
and ye
Whom trees that knew your sires shall cease to know
And still stand silent:--is it all a show--
A wisp that laughs upon the wall?--decree
Of some inexorable supremacy
Which ever as man strains his blind surmise
From depth to ominous depth looks past his eyes
Sphinx-faced with unabashd augury?
Nay rather question the Earth's self. Invoke
The storm-felled forest-trees moss-grown to-day
Whose roots are hillocks where the children play
Or ask the silver sapling 'neath what yoke
Those stars his spray-crown's clustering gems shall wage
Their journey still when his boughs shrink with age.

Get thee behind me. Even as heavy-curled
Stooping against the wind a charioteer
Is snatched from out his chariot by the hair
So shall Time be
and as the void car hurled
Abroad by reinless steeds even so the world:
Yea even as chariot-dust upon the air
It shall be sought and not found anywhere.
Get thee behind me Satan. Oft unfurled
Thy perilous wings can beat and break like lath
Much mightiness of men to win thee praise.
Leave these weak feet to tread in narrow ways.
Thou still upon the broad vine-sheltered path
Mayst wait the turning of the phials of wrath
For certain years for certain months and days.

As when two men have loved a woman well
Each hating each through Love's and Death's deceit
Since not for either this stark marriage-sheet
And the long pauses of this wedding-bell
Yet o'er her grave the night and day dispel
At last their feud forlorn with cold and heat
Nor other than dear friends to death may fleet
The two lives left that most of her can tell:--
So separate hopes which in a soul had wooed
The one same Peace strove with each other long
And Peace before their faces perished since:
So through that soul in restless brotherhood
They roam together now and wind among
Its bye-streets knocking at the dusty inns. 

Beholding youth and hope in mockery caught
From life
and mocking pulses that remain
When the soul's death of bodily death is fain
Honour unknown and honour known unsought
And penury's sedulous self-torturing thought
On gold whose master therewith buys his bane
And longed-for woman longing all in vain
For lonely man with love's desire distraught
And wealth and strength and power and pleasantness
Given unto bodies of whose souls men say
None poor and weak slavish and foul as they:
Beholding these things I behold no less
The blushing morn and blushing eve confess
The shame that loads the intolerable day.

As some true chief of men bowed down with stress
Of life's disastrous eld on blossoming youth
May gaze and murmur with self-pity and ruth--
"Might I thy fruitless treasure but possess
Such blessing of mine all coming years should bless"
--
Then sends one sigh forth to the unknown goal
And bitterly feels breathe against his soul
The hour swift-winged of nearer nothingness:
Even so the World's gray Soul to the green World
Perchance one hour must cry: "Woe's me for whom
Inveteracy of ill portends the doom
Whose heart's old fire in shadow of shame is furl'd:
While thou even as of yore art journeying
All soulless now yet merry with the Spring!"

Great Michelangelo with age grown bleak
And uttermost labours having once o'ersaid
All grievous memories on his long life shed
This worst regret to one true heart could speak:--
That when with sorrowing love and reverence meek
He stooped o'er sweet Colonna's dying bed
His Muse and dominant Lady spirit-wed--
Her hand he kissed but not her brow or cheek.
O Buonarruoti--good at Art's fire-wheels
To urge her chariot!--even thus the Soul
Touching at length some sorely-chastened goal
Earns oftenest but a little: her appeals
Were deep and mute--lowly her claim. Let be:
What holds for her Death's garner? And for thee? 

Around the vase of Life at your slow pace
He has not crept but turned it with his hands
And all its sides already understands.
There girt one breathes alert for some great race
Whose road runs far by sands and fruitful Space
Who laughs yet through the jolly throng has pass'd
Who weeps nor stays for weeping
who at last
A youth stands somewhere crowned with silent face.
And he has filled this vase with wine for blood
With blood for tears with spice for burning vow
With watered flowers for buried love most fit
And would have cast it shattered to the flood
Yet in Fate's name has kept it whole
which now
Stands empty till his ashes fall in it.

As thy friend's face with shadow of soul o'erspread
Somewhile unto thy sight perchance hath been
Ghastly and strange yet never so is seen
In thought but to all fortunate favor wed
As thy love's death-bound features never dead
To memory's glass return but contravene
Frail fugitive days and alway keep I ween
Than all new life a livelier lovelihead:--
So Life herself thy spirit's friend and love
Even still as Spring's authentic harbinger
Glows with fresh hours for hope to glorify
Though pale she lay when in the winter grove
Her funeral flowers were snow-flakes shed on her
And the red wings of frost-fire rent the sky. 

my name is Might-have-been
I am also called No-more Too-late Farewell
Unto thine ear I hold the dead-sea shell
Cast up thy Life's foam-fretted feet between
Unto thine eyes the glass where that is seen
Which had Life's form and Love's but by my spell
Is now a shaken shadow intolerable
Of ultimate things unuttered the frail screen.
Mark me how still I am I But should there dart
One moment through thy soul the soft surprise
Of that winged Peace which lulls the breath of sighs
Then shalt thou see me smile and turn apart
Thy visage to mine ambush at thy heart
Sleepless with cold commemorative eyes. 

Whence came his feet into my field and why?
How is it that he sees it all so drear?
How do I see his seeing and how hear
The name his bitter silence knows it by?
This was the little fold of separate sky
Whose pasturing clouds in the soul's atmosphere
Drew living light from one continual year:
How should he find it lifeless? He or I?
Lo I this new Self now wanders round my field
With plaints for every flower and for each tree
A moan the sighing wind's auxiliary:
And o'er sweet waters of my life that yield
Unto his lips no draughts but tears unseal'd
Even in my place he weeps. Even I not he. 

To-day Death seems to me an infant child
Which her worn mother Life upon my knee
Has set to grow my friend and play with me
If haply so my heart might be beguil'd
To find no terrors in a face so mild
If haply so my weary heart might be
Unto the newborn milky eyes of thee
O Death before resentment reconcil'd.
How long O Death? And shall thy feet depart
Still a young child's with mine or wilt thou stand
Fullgrown the helpful daughter of my heart
What time with thee indeed I reach the strand
Of the pale wave which knows thee what thou art
And drink it in the hollow of thy hand? 

And thou O Life the lady of all bliss
With whom when our first heart beat full and fast
I wandered till the haunts of men were pass'd
And in fair places found all bowers amiss
Till only woods and waves might hear our kiss
While to the winds all thought of Death we cast:--
Ah Life! and must I have from thee at last
No smile to greet me and no babe but this?
Lo! Love the child once ours
and Song whose hair
Blew like a flame and blossomed like a wreath
And Art whose eyes were worlds by God found fair
These o'er the book of Nature mixed their breath
With neck-twined arms as oft we watched them there:
And did these die that thou mightst bear me Death? 

When vain desire at last and vain regret
Go hand in hand to death and all is vain
What shall assuage the unforgotten pain
And teach the unforgetful to forget?
Shall Peace be still a sunk stream long unmet
Or may the soul at once in a green plain
Stoop through the spray of some sweet life-fountain
And cull the dew-drenched flowering amulet?
Ah! when the wan soul in that golden air
Between the scriptured petals softly blown
Peers breathless for the gift of grace unknown
Ah! let none other alien spell soe'er
But only the one Hope's one name be there
Not less nor more
but even that word alone.

There's a regret that from my bosom aye
Wrigs forth a dirgy sweetness like a rain
Of deathward love
that ever in my brain
Uttereth such tones as in some foregone way
Seem gathered from the harmonies that start
Into the dayspring when some rarest view
Unveileth its Tempean grace anew
To meet the sun--the great world's fervent heart.
'Tis that though living in his tuneful day
My boyhood might not see the gentle smile
Nor hear the voice of Shelley
that away
His soul had journeyed ere I might beguile
In my warm youth by some fraternal lay
One thought of his towards this my native isle. 

She loves me! From her own bliss-breathing lips
The live confession came like rich perfume
From crimson petals bursting into bloom!
And still my heart at the remembrance skips
Like a young lion and my tongue too trips
As drunk with joy! while every object seen
In life's diurnal round wears in its mien
A clear assurance that no doubts eclipse.
And if the common things of nature now
Are like old faces flushed with new delight
Much more the consciousness of that rich vow
Deepens the beauteous and refines the bright
While throned I seem on love's divinest height
'Mid all the glories glowing round its brow. 

Fair as the night--when all the astral fires
Of heaven are burning in the clear expanse
My love is
and her eyes like star-depths glance
Lustrous with glowing thoughts and pure desires
And that mysterious pathos which inspires
All moods divine in mortal passion's trance--
All that its earthly music doth enhance
As with the rapture of seraphic lyres!
I gaze upon her till the atmosphere
Sweetens intensely and to my charmed sight
All fair associated forms appear
Swimming in joy as swim yon orbs in light--
And all sweet sounds though jcommon to mine ear
Chime up like silver-wingd dreams in flight. 

She loves me! From her own bliss-breathing lips
The live confession came like rich perfume
From crimson petals bursting into bloom!
And still my heart at the remembrance skips
Like a young lion and my tongue too trips
As drunk with joy! while every object seen
In life's diurnal round wears in its mien
A clear assurance that no doubts eclipse.
And if the common things of nature now
Are like old faces flushed with new delight
Much more the consciousness of that rich vow
Deepens the beauteous and refines the bright
While throned I seem on love's divinest height
'Mid all the glories glowing round its brow.

Whenas the watches of the night had grown
To that deep loneliness where dreams begin
I saw how Love with visage worn and thin--
With wings close-bound went through a town alone.
Death-pale he showed and inly seemed to moan
With sore desire some dolorous place to win
Sharp brambles passed had streaked his dazzling skin--
His bright feet eke were gashed with many a stone.
And as he went I sad for piteousness
Might see how men from door and gate would move
To stay his steps
or womankind would press
With wistful eyes to balconies above
And bid him enter in. But Love not less
Mournful kept on his way. Ah! hapless Love. 

Incense and flesh of swine and this year's grain
At the new moon with suppliant hands bestow
O rustic Phidyle! So naught shall know
Thy crops of blight thy vine of Afric bane
And hale the nurslings of thy flock remain
Through the sick apple-tide. Fit victims grow
'Twixt holm and oak upon the Algid snow
Or Alban grass that with their necks must stain
The Pontiff's axe: to thee can scarce avail
Thy modest gods with much slain to assail
Whom myrtle crowns and rosemary can please.
Lay on the altar a hand pure of fault
More than rich gifts the Powers it shall appease
Though pious but with meal and crackling salt.

FRANK (on the Lawn)
Come to the Terrace May--the sun is low.
MAY (in the House)
Thanks I prefer my Browning here instead.
There are two peaches by the strawberry bed.
They will be riper if we let them grow.
Then the Park-aloe is in bloom you know.
Also her Majesty Queen Anne is dead.
But surely May your pony must be fed.
And was and is. I fed him hours ago.
'Tis useless Frank you see I shall not stir.
Still I had something you would like to hear.
No doubt some new frivolity of men.
Nay--'tis a thing the gentler sex deplores
Chiefly I think . . .
MAY (coming to the window).
What is this secret then?
FRANK (mysteriously).
There are no eyes more beautiful than yours!

Behind thy pasteboard on thy battered back
Thy lean cheek striped with plaster to and fro
Thy long spear levelled at the unseen foe
And doubtful Sancho trudging at thy back
Thou wert a figure strange enough good lack!
To make wiseacredom both high and low
Rub purblind eyes and (having watched thee go)
Despatch its Dogberrys upon thy track:
Alas! poor Knight! Alas! poor soul possest!
Yet would to-day when Courtesy grows chill
And life's fine loyalties are turned to jest
Some fire of thine might burn within us still!
Ah! would but one might lay his lance in rest
And charge in earnest--were it but a mill. 

The Press is too much with us small and great:
We are undone of chatter and on dit
Report retort rejoinder repartee
Mole-hill and mare's nest fiction up-to-date
Babble of booklets bicker of debate
Aspect of A. and attitude of B.--
A waste of words that drive us like a sea
Mere derelict of Ourselves and helpless freight!
"O for a lodge in some vast wilderness!"
Some region unapproachable of Print
Where never cablegram could gain access
And telephones were not nor any hint
Of tidings new or old but Man might pipe
His soul to Nature--careless of the Type!

Eyes calm beside thee (Lady could'st thou know!)
May turn away thick with fast-gathering tears:
I glance not where all gaze: thrilling and low
Their passionate praises reach thee--my cheek wears
Alone no wonder when thou passest by
Thy tremulous lids bent and suffused reply
To the irrepressible homage which doth glow
On every lip but mine: if in thine ears
Their accents linger--and thou dost recall
Me as I stood still guarded very pale
Beside each votarist whose lighted brow
Wore worship like an aureole "O'er them all
My beauty" thou wilt murmur "did prevail
Save that one only."--Lady could'st thou know!

"Why?" Because all I haply can and do
And that I am now all I hope to be--
Whence comes it save from fortune setting free
Body and soul the purpose to pursue
God traced for both? If fetters not a few
Of prejudice convention fall from me
These shall I bid men--each in his degree
Also God-guided--bear and gaily too?
But little do or can the best of us:
That little is achieved through Liberty.
Who then dares hold emancipated thus
His fellow shall continue bound? Not I
Who live love labor freely nor discuss
A brother's right to freedom. That is "Why." 
Who hears of Helen's Tower may dream perchance 
How the Greek Beauty from the Scaean Gate 
Gazed on old friends unanimous in hate 
Death-doom'd because of her fair countenance. 

Late I a visionary form beheld
As airy forms of youthful poets bright
In each warm tint of colour it excelled
Love might have used it to inspire delight.
Gay fancy shaped it as a blooming maid
Of mind and manners gentle high of birth
And still this sportive image I portrayed
Oft as I heard fame spread of Ella's worth.
But now no more my wanton fancy roves
Deludes no more the fairy form I made
Truth with grave matron air before me moves
And fiction's powers at Ella's presence fade.
Yet lives that form which once my fancy drew
And Ella but restores it to my view.

Over that breathing waste of friends and foes
The wounded and the dying hour by hour
In will a thousand yet but one in power
He labours through the red and groaning day.
The fearful moorland where the myriads lay
Moves as a moving field of mangled worms:
And as a raw brood orphaned in the storms
Thrust up their heads if the wind bend a spray
Above them but when the bare branch performs
No sweet paternal office sink away
With helpless chirp of woe--so as he goes
Around his feet in clamorous agony
They rise and fall and all the seething plain
Bubbles a cauldron vast of many-coloured pain. 

Last night beneath the foreign stars I stood
And saw the thoughts of those at home go by
To the great grave upon the hill of blood.
Upon the darkness they went visibly
Each in the vesture of its own distress.
Among them there came One frail as a sigh
And like a creature of the wilderness
Dug with her bleeding hands. She neither cried
Nor wept nor did she see the many stark
And dead that lay unburied at her side.
All night she toiled and at that time of dawn
When Day and Night do change their More and Less
And Day is more I saw the melting Dark
Stir to the last and knew she laboured on. 

She turned the fair page with her fairer hand--
More fair and frail than it was wont to be
O'er each remember'd thing he loved to see
She lingered and as with a fairy's wand
Enchanted it to order. Oft she fanned
New motes into the sun and as a bee
Sings through a brake of bells so murmured she
And so her patient love did understand
The reliquary room. Upon the sill
She fed his favourite bird. "Ah Robin sing!
He loves thee." Then she touches a sweet string
Of soft recall and towards the Eastern hill
Smiles all her soul--
for him who cannot hear
The raven croaking at his carrion ear.

True love is lowly as the wayside flower
That springeth up beneath the traveller's tread
And lifteth trustfully its lovely head
Content to bless therewith the passing hour
Unheedful of the wealth of heavenly dower
It lavisheth upon a path bestead
With the coarse trafficking of sordid meed
So it lie open but to sun and shower.
And love no less deals with unstinted hand:
Lavish to others heedless of reward:
Deeming no sacrifice of self too hard
So that with fruitful arms outspread she stand
Sowing around home's hearth her harvest treasure:
Heart's hoards of golden grain showered down in affluent measure.

This was a leader of the sons of light
Of winsome cheer and strenuous command.
Upon the veteran hordes of Bigot-land
All day his vanguard spirit flaming bright
Bore up the brunt of unavailing fight.
Then with the iron in his soul one hand
Still on the hilt he passed from that slim band
Out through the ranks to rearward and the night.
The day is lost but not the day of days
And ye his comrades in the losing war
Stand once again for liberty and love!
Close up the ranks his deed your deeds let praise!
Against the front of dark where gleams one star
Strive on to death as this great captain strove!

So more than beautiful you looked to-night
In some calm moments as if perfect good
Alone made up your sum of womanhood
It seemed so needless that your eyes were bright
So little that your thought could wing its flight
In faithful cadence to my varying mood:
The very music of your voice was rude
Awakening from the silence's delight.
Oh! There are moments when the soul can read
The knowledge writ in darkness and can hear
The harmonies of silence like a song.
There is no truth if this belief be wrong
To-night you lived such moments and I near
Caught echoes of an anthem and a creed.

Oft when my feet at evening homeward tread
The stately cloisters of the oak along
My fervent soul breaks into grateful song
And I a glad rapt worshipper am led.
God what a glorious prospect is outspread!
Impersoned Nature here hath built her shrine:
On yon great altar sacrifice divine
She offers to her Maker. On the head
Of the majestic peak upon the west
Her favoured seat at eve oft sitteth she
Soothing the busy city into rest
Whilst the sun setting lights the golden sea.
Here in thy fane bright Presence I divest
My heart of lower thoughts and bow to heaven and thee.

Across the far-stretched carpet of bronze-green
Veined with red paths rough-traced by foot and tyre
From out the kopjes break night's funeral pyre
And slowly as it kindles the wide scene
Is pierced with golden searchlights and through screen
Of mystic ambient starts each thin black spire
Whose inky curld pennants from the fire
Of the gold-seeker blur the morning sheen.
Ghost-white the mounds of cyanide appear
Like phantom hills the Kafir on the plain
In blanket wrapped stares mutely as his ear
Catches the rumble of the winding train
The moan of bullocks creak of wagon strain
Then maddening shriek of siren--day is here.

Man seems a waif cast on the stream of Time
That bears him onward to the unknown shore
That longed-for feared dread mysterious clime
Toward which all hasten--to return no more.
Yet not so helpless is he as he seems
Nor void of power to guide life's barque aright
If Faith sits at the helm and Hope's bright beams
Shine o'er the troubled waters when 'tis night
Guiding and cheering like a beacon light
Till peace is gained and life's cares gone like dreams.
Thence looking back o'er Time's brief troubled way
How vain must seem each earthly joy or care!
This thought should cheer us on from day to day
To work and wait to bear and to forbear.

The earthly roses at God's call have made
Way lady for a dress of heavenly white
In which thou walk'st with other figures bright
Once loved on earth who now like thee arrayed
Feast on two-fold ambrosia wine and bread
They lead thee up by sinuous paths of light
Through lilied fields that sparkle in God's sight
And crown thee with delights that never fade.
O thou thrice-sainted mother in that bliss
Forget not thy two daughters whom a kiss
At parting left as sad as thou art glad
In thy deep joy think how for thee they weep
Or conjure through the shifting glass of sleep
The saint heaven hath the mother once they had. 

YOU who do breach mine eyes and touch the heart
And start the mind from her brief reveries
Might pluck my life and agony apart
Saw you how love assaileth her with sighs
And lays about him with so brute a might
That all my wounded senses turn to flight.
There's a new face upon the seigniory
And new is the voice that maketh loud my grief.
Love who hath drawn me down through devious ways
Hath from your noble eyes so swiftly come!
'T is he hath hurled the dart wherefrom my pain
First shot's resultant! and in flanked amaze
See how my affrighted soul recoileth from
That sinister side wherein the heart lies slain.

I SAW the eyes where Amor took his place
When love's might bound me with the fear thereof
Look out at me as they were weary of love.
I say: The heart rent him as he looked on this.
And were't not that my Lady lit her grace
Smiling upon me with her eyes grown glad
Then were my speech so dolorously clad
That Love should mourn amid his victories.
The instant that she deigned to bend her eyes
Toward me a spirit from high heaven rode
And chose my thought the place of love's verities
That all Love's powers did my sight accost
As though I'd won unto his heart's mid-most.

O LADY mine doth not thy sight allege
Him who hath set his hand upon my heart
When parched responses from my faint throat start
And shudder for the terror of his edge?
He was Amor who since he found you dwells
Ever with me and he was come from far
An archer is he as the Scythians are
Whose only joy is killing someone else.
My sobbing eyes are drawn upon his wrack
And such harsh sighs upon my heart he casteth
That I depart from that sad me he wasteth
With Death drawn close upon my wavering track
Leading such tortures in his sombre train
As by all custom wear out other men. 

LADY my most rash eyes the first who used
To look upon thy face the power-fraught
Were Lady those by whom I was accused
In that harsh place where Amor holdeth court.
And there before him was their proof adduced
And judgment wrote me down: "Bondslave" to thee
Though still I stay Grief's prisoner unloosed
And Fear hath lien upon the heart of me.
For the which charges and without respite
They dragged me to a place where a sad horde
Of such as love and whom Love Tortureth
Cried out all pitying as I met their sight
"Now art thou servant unto such a Lord
Thou'lt have none other one save only Death."

THOU fill'st my mind with griefs so populous
That my soul irks him to be on the road.
Mine eyes cry out "We cannot bear the load
Of sighs the grievous heart sends upon us."
Love sensitive to thy nobility
Saith "Sorrow is mine that thou must take thy death
From this fair lady who will hear no breath
In argument for aught save pitying thee."
And I as one beyond life's compass thrown
Seem but a thing that's fashioned to design
Melted of bronze or carven in tree or stone.
A wound I bear within this heart of mine
Which by its mastering quality is grown
To be of that heart's death an open sign. 

Who is she coming drawing all men's gaze
Who makes the air one trembling clarity
Till none can speak but each sighs piteously
Where she leads Love adown her trodden ways?
Ah God! The thing she's like when her glance strays
Let Amor tell. "T is no fit speech for me.
Mistress she seems of such great modesty
That every other woman were called "Wrath."
No one could ever tell the charm she hath
For toward her all the noble Powers incline
She being beauty's godhead manifest.
Our daring ne'er before held such high quest
Be ye! There is not in you so much grace
That we can understand her rightfully.

I AM reduced at last to self compassion
For the sore anguish that I see me in
At my great weakness
that my soul hath been
Concealed beneath her wounds in such a fashion:
Such mine oppression that I know in brief
That to my life ill's worst starred ills befall
And this strange lady on whose grace I call
Maintains continuous my stour of grief
For when I look in her direction
She turns upon me her disdeigning eyen
So harshly that my waiting heart is rent
And all my powers and properties are spent
Till that heart lieth for a sign ill-seen
Where Amor's cruelty hath hurled him down.

ALAS my spirits that ye come to find me
So painful poor waylaid in wretchedness
Yet send no words adorned with deep distress
Forth from my mind to say what sorrows bind me.
Alas ye see how sore my heart is wounded
By glance by fair delight and by her meekness
'Las! Must I pray ye that ye aid his weakness
Seeing him power-stripped naked confounded.
And now a spirit that is noble and haut
Appeareth to that heart with so great might
That all th' heart's virtues turn in sudden flight.
Woe! and I pray you greet my soul as friend
Who tells through all her grief what things were wrought
On her by Love and will be to the end. 

IF Mercy were the friend of my desires
Or Mercy's source of movement were the heart
Then by this fair would Mercy show such art
And power of healing as my pain requires.
From torturing delight my sighs commence
Born of the mind where Love is situate
Go errant forth and naught save grief relate
And find no one to give them audience.
They would return to the eyes in galliard mode
With all harsh tears and their deep bitterness
Transmuted into revelry and joy
Were't not unto the sad heart such annoy
And to the mournful soul such rathe distress
That none doth deign salute them on the road. 

SUBTLE the spririt striking through the eyes
Which rouseth up a sprit in the mind
Whence moves a spirit unto love inclined
Which breeds in other sprites nobilities.
No turbid spirit hath the sense which sees
How greatly empowered a spirit he appeareth
He is the little breath which that breath feareth
Which breedeth virginal humilities.
Yet from this spirit doth another move
Wherein such tempered sweetness rightly dwells
That Mercy's spirit followeth his ways
And Mercy's spirit as it moves above
Rains down those spirits that ope all things else
Perforce of One who seeth all of these.

SURELY thine intellect gives no embrace
To him who hath bred this day's dishonesty
How art thou shown for beggared suddenly
By that red spirit showing in thy face!
Perhaps it is some love within thee breedeth
For her who's folly's circumspection
Perhaps some baser light doth call thee on
To make thee glad where mine own grief exceedeth.
Thou art my grief my grief to such extent
That I trust not myself to meet Milady
Starving myself of what Love sweetest lent me
So that before my face that key's forbent
Which her disdeign turned in my heart and made me
Suitor to wrath and sadness and lamenting.

THOU hast in thee the flower and the green
And that which gleameth and is fair of sight
Thy form is more resplendent than sun's sheen
Who sees thee not can ne'er know worth aright.
Nay in this world there is no creature seen
So fashioned fair and full of all delight
Who fears Amor and fearing meets thy mien
Thereby assured he solveth him his fright.
The ladies of whom thy cortconsisteth
Please me in this that they've thy favour won
I bid them now as courtesy existeth
Holding most dear thy lordship of their state
To honour thee with powers commensurate
Sith thou art thou that art sans paragon. 

NOW every cool small spring that springeth sweetly
Takes clarity and virtue in Liscian climes
Bernard my friend from one sole source discretely:
'T is she who answereth thy sharpened rimes.
For in that place where Love's reports are laid
Concerning all who to his sight are led
He saith that this so gracious and fair maid
Hath to herself all graces gatherd.
Whereas my grief in this is grown more grave
And sighs have turned me to one light and flame
I send my burning heart in her acclaim
Unto Pinella upon a magic stream
Where fairies and their fair attendants gleam
In this wrecked barque! where their show is so brave! 

BEAUTY of woman of the knowing heart
And courtly knights in bright accoutrement
And loving speeches and the small birds' art
Adorned swift ships which on high seas are sent
And airs grown calm when white the dawn appeareth
And white snow falling where no wind is bent
Brook-marge and mead where every flower flareth
And gold and silver and azure and ornament:
Effective 'gainst all these think ye the fairness
And valour of my Lady's lordly daring?
Yea she makes all seem base vain gathering
And she were known above whome'er you'd bring
As much as heaven is past earth's comparing
Good seeketh out its like with some address. 

NEWS have I now for thee so hear Nerone
How that the Buondelmonti shake with fear
And all the Florentines can not assure them
Seeing thou hast in thee the lion-heart.
They fear thee more than they would fear a dragon
Seeing that face of thine how set it is
That neither bridge nor walls could hold against it
Lest they were strong as is King Pharo's tomb.
Oh how dost of smoky sins the greatest
In that thou wouldst drive forth such haughty blood
Till all be gone gone forth without retention.
But sooth it is thou might'st extend the pawn
Of one whose soul thou mightest give salvation
Wert thou more patient in thine huckstering. 

SO vilely is this soul of mine confounded
By strife grown audible within the heart
That is toward her some frail Love but start
With unaccustomed speed she swoons astounded.
She is as one in whom no power aboundeth
Lo she forsakes my heart through fearfulness
And any seeing her how prone she is
Would deem her one whom death's sure cloak surroundeth.
Through th' eyes as through the breach in wall her foes
Came first to attack and shattered all defense
Then spoiled the mind with their down-rained blows.
Whoe'er he be who holdeth joy most close
Would should he see my spirit going hence
Weep for the pity and make no pretense. 

THOU mayest see who seest me face to face
That most dred spirit whom Love summoneth
To meet with man when a man meets with Death
One never seen in any other case.
So close upon me did this presence show
That I thought he would slay my heart his dolour
And my sad soul clad her in the dead colour
That most accords the will and ways of woe.
Then he restrained him seeing in true faith
The piteous lights forth-issue from your eyes
The which bore to my heart their foreign sweetness
While the perceptive sense with subtle fleetness
Rescued those others who had considered death
The one sure ending for their miseries.

THOU sawest it seems to me all things availing
And every joy that ever good man feeleth.
Thou wast in proof of that lord valorous
Who through sheer honour lords it o'er the world.
Thou livest in a place where baseness dieth
And holdest reason in the piteous mind
So gently move the people in this sleep
That the heart bears it 'thout the feel of grief.
Love bore away the heart because in his sight
Was Death grown clamorous for one thou lovest
Love fed her with thy heart in dread of this
Then when it seemed to thee he left in sadness
A dear dream was it which was there completed
Seeing it contrary came conquering. 

I DAILY come to thee uncounting times
And find thee ever thinking over vilely
Much doth it grieve me that thy noble mind
And virtue's plenitude are stripped from thee
Thou wast so careless in thy fine offending
Who from the rabble alway held apart
And spoke of me so straightly from the heart
That I gave welcome to thine every rime.
And now I care not sith thy life is baseness
To give the sign that thy speech pleaseth me
Nor come I to thee in guise visible
Yet if thou'It read this Sonnet many a time
That malign spirit which so hunteth thee
Will sound forloyn and spare thy affrighted soul.

COME come Manetto look upon this scarecrow
And set your mind upon its deformations
Compute th' extent of its sad abberrations
Say what it looks like where she scarcely dare go!
Nay were she in a cloak most well conceald
And snugly hooded and most tightly veiled
If by her daylight should once be assailed
Though by some noble woman partly heald
Still you could not be so sin-laden or quite
So bound by anguish or by love's abstractions
Nor so enwrapped in naked melancholy
But you were brought to deathly danger solely
By laughter till your sturdy sides grew fractions
'Struth you were dead or sought your life in flight. 

Nay when I would have sent my verses to thee
To say how harshly my heart is oppressed
Love in an ashen vision manifest
Appeared and spake: "Say not that I foredo thee
For though thy friend be he I understand
He will not yet have his mind so enured
But that to hear of all thou hast endured
Of that blare flame that hath thee 'neath its hand
Would blear his mind out. Verily before!
Yea he were dead heard life ere he should hear
To the last meaning of the portent wrought.
And thou thou knowest well I am Amor
Who leave with thee mine ashen likeness here
And bear away from thee thine every thought." 

A LOVE-LIT glance with living powers fraught
Renewed within me love's extreme delight
So love assils me with unwonted might
And cordially he driveth me in thought
Towards my lady with whom 'vaileth not
Mercy nor pity nor the suffering wrought
So oft and great her torments on me fall
That my heart scarce can feel his life at all.
But when I feel that her so sweet regard
Passeth mine eyes and to the heart attaineth
Setting to rest therein spirits of joy
Then do I give her thanks and without retard
Love asked her to do this and that explaineth
Why this first pity doth no annoy. 

I FEAR me lest unfortune's counter thrust
Pierce through my throat and rip out my despair.
I feel my heart and that thought shaking there
Which shakes the aspen mind with his distrust
Seeming to say "Love doth not give thee ease
So that thou canst as of a little thing
Speak to thy Lady with full verities
For fear Death set thee in his reckoning.
By the chagrin that here assails my soul
My heart's parturd of a sigh so great
It cryeth to the spirits: "Get ye gone!"
And of all piteous folk I come on none
Who seeing me so in my grief's control
Will aid by saying e'en: "Nay Spirits wait!" 

If Santalena does not come unto you
Down in the plow-lands where the clods are hard
But falls into the hands of some hot clod-pole
Who'll wear her out and hardly then return her
Then tell me if the fruit which this land beareth
Is born of draught or heat or from the dampness
And say what wind it is doth blight and wither
And which doth bring the tempest and the mist.
Say if it please you when at break of morning
You hear the farmer's workman bawling out
And all his family meddling in the noise?
Egad! I think that if your sweet Bettina
Beareth a mellow spirit in her heart
She'll rescue you once more from your last choice. 

DEATH who art haught the wretched's remedy
Grace! Grace! hands joined I do beseech it thee
Come see and conquer for worse things on me
Are launched by love. My senses that did live
Consumd are and quenched and e'en in this place
Where I was galliard now I see that I am
Fallen away and where my steps I misplace
Fall pain and grief to open tears I nigh am.
And greater ills He'd send if greater may be.
Sweet Death now is the time thou may'st avail me
And snatch me from His hand's hosility.
Ah woe! how oft I cry "Love tell me now:
Why dost thou ill only unto thine own
Like him of hell who maketh the damned groan?" 

O camp of flowers with poplars girdled round
Gray guardians of life's soft and purple bud!
O silver spring beside whose brimming flood
My pensive childhood its Elysium found!
O happy hours by love and fancy crowned
Whose horn of plenty flatteringly subdued
My heart into a trance whence with a rude
And horrid blast fate came my soul to hound!
Who was the goddess that empowered you all
Thus to bewitch me? Out of wasting snow
And lily-leaves her head-dress should be made!
Weep my poor lute! nor on Astraea call
She will not smile nor I who mourn below
Till I a shade in heaven clasp her a shade. 

Deep in a vale where rocks on every side
Shut out the winds and scarcely let the sun
Between them dart his rays down one by one
Where all was still and cool in summer-tide
And softly with her whispering waves that sighed
A little river that had scarce begun
Her silver course made bold to fleet and run
Down leafy falls to woodlands dense and wide
There stood a tiny plain just large enow
To give small mountain-folk right room to dance
With oaks and limes and maples ringed around
Hither I came and viewed its turf askance
Its solitude with beauty seemed a-glow--
My Love had walked there and 'twas holy ground! 

And then I sat me down and gave the rein
To my wild thoughts till many a song that rang
From boughs around where hidden warblers sang
Recalled me from myself
then "Oh! in vain"
I said "do these outpour the tender strain?
Can these sweet birds that with such airs harangue
Their feathered loves like me feel sorrow's pang?
Ah! would that I like them had pinions twain!
Straight would I fly to her whom I love best
Nor vainly warbling in the woodland sing
But chirp my prayer and preen my plumd crest
And to this spot once more her beauty bring
And flutter round her flight with supple wing
And lead her to my secret leafy nest." 

Remembrancer of joys long passed away
Relic from which as yet I cannot part
O hast thou power to lengthen love's short day?
Stronger thy chain than that which bound the heart?
Lili I fly!--yet still thy fetters press me
In distant valley or far lonely wood
Still with a struggling sigh of pain confess thee
The mistress of my soul in every mood.
The bird may burst the silken chain that bound him
Flying to the green home which fits him best
But ah! he bears the prisoner's badge around him
Still by the piece about his neck distressed.
He ne'er can breathe his free wild notes again
They're stifled by the pressure of his chain. 
The holy Rose her leaves will soon unfold.
The tender bud of dawn already lies
Reddening on the wide transparent skies.
Love's star is a white sail the still seas hold.

Here in the light-soaked space above the wold
Through the descending dew the arches rise
Of the unseen cathedral filled with cries
From the winged weavers threading it with gold.
Here on the hill the cypress in accord
With me stands praying: a cowled eremite.
And on the rose's cheeks the tears fall light.
Upon my cell the patterned rays are poured.
And in the East the purple vines bleed bright
And seething overflow. . . . Hosanna Lord! 
Waters of gentle Tagus calmly flowing
Through these green fields ye freshen as ye flow
On flocks and herds plants flowers all things that grow
On shepherds and on nymphs delight bestowing
I know not ah! sweet streams despair of knowing
When I shall come again for as I go
And ponder why ye fill me with such woe
That in my heart a deep distrust is growing.

The Fates have e'en decreed this sad adieu
Aiming to change my joys into despair
This sad adieu that weighs upon my years:
Of them complaining yearning after you
With sighs I shall invade some distant air
And trouble other waters with my tears. 
His generous visage gashed with heathen blade
His Royal brow with dust and blood all wan
Came to the mournful boat of Acheron
The great Sebastian past into a shade.
The cruel boatman seeing that undismayed
The King perforce would cross pronounced his ban
Vowing that never o'er that stream was man
Ferried whose funeral rites were still unpaid.

The valorous King whose anger knew no bounds
Replied Oh! false old man and dost not know
Others by force of gold have passed before?
What! of a king all bathed in blood of Moor
Darest thou to claim that he a tomb shall show?
Claim it of him who comes with fewer wounds. 
Sweet delicate fillet who art left behind
In pledge the joy I merit to redeem
If only seeing thee half lost I seem
What with the locks round which thou erst didst wind?
Those golden tresses where thou wast entwined
That hold the sunbeam's glow in light esteem
I know not if to mock my prayerful dream
Or if to bind me thou didst them unbind.

Sweet fillet in my hands I see thee lie
And that my grief some solace I may show
As one who hath no other thee I take:
And if my wish thou dost not satisfy
Still in the rule of love I'll bid her know
Sometimes we keep the part for the whole's sake. 
Within a wood nymphs were inhabiting
Sibella lovely nymph was wandering free
And climbing up into a shady tree
The yellow blossoms there was gathering.
Cupid who thither ever turned his wing
Cool in his shady mid-day sleep to be
Would on a branch e'er sleeping pendent see
The bows and arrows he was wont to bring.

The nymph who now the moment fitting saw
For so great enterprise in nought delays
But flies the scorner with the arms she ta'en.
She bears the arrows in her eyes to draw.
Oh! shepherds fly for every one she slays
Save me alone who live by being slain. 
If thou indifference wilt display to none
Rather towards every one endearing art
If thou towards every one dost show a heart
That fullest love and gentleness doth own
Henceforth towards me be thy disfavour shown
In odious scorn or coldness stand apart
There shall I come to think beneath the smart
Thou showest favour unto me alone.

For if to all so tender thou wilt prove
'Tis clear the only favoured one is he
Towards whom thine eye doth with displeasure move.
Scarcely indeed can I be loved by thee
If in thy heart thou hast another love
For Love is one nor can divided be. 
Beneath a green and lofty oak reclined
Corydon o'er the scale his finger threw
In ivy's shade whose clinging tendrils grew
Among the trees and round the branches twined.
Of Amaryllis nymph for whom he pined
He sang the loves love's moving power he knew
The birds among the branches listening flew
And lower down did stream of crystal wind.

To him comes Tityrus who idly roved
Driving his meagre cattle o'er the plain
Tityrus was friend of Corydon best loved.
He tells him all his torment and his pain
By other's speech the embittered is not moved.
Nor grief makes sorrowful the heart that's fain. 
All hushed the heaven and earth and wind the same
The waves all spreading o'er the sandy plain
While sleep doth in the sea the fish enchain
Nocturnal silence brooding as a dream
Prostrate with love Ionio fisher came
Where the breeze moved the waters of the main
Weeping the well-loved name he called in vain
That can no more be called but as a name
Oh! waves or ere love slay me thus he cried
Restore to me my nymph who ah! so soon
Ye taught my soul was subject to the grave.

No one replies from far beats ocean's tide
All softly moves the grove and the wind's moan
Bears off the voice that to the wind he gave. 
Aurora with her new-born crystal ray
Arose the enamelled world again to dress
When Nise fair and gentle shepherdess
Departed whence her only true life lay.
The light of eyes that darkened those of day
She raised while flowing anxious tears oppress
Of self fate time all wearied to distress
And gazing heavenward thus did pensive say:
Rise tranquil sun once more all pure and shining
Clear purple morn with new-born light be clad
And see sad souls with you their grief resigning
But my poor soul while others all are glad
Ye know ye ne'er shall see but as repining
Nor any other shepherdess so sad. 

Never did love his boldness hurtful find
Fortune hath ever favours for the bold
For cowardice that shivers in the cold
Hangs like a stone on freedom of the mind.
Who dares the Firmament sublime ascend
Meets there a star whereby his course is told
The good mere fancy in its range doth hold
Illusive is soon scattered by the wind.
A path for fortune should be opened free
To none without himself will greatness fall
Chance moving only in first steps appears.
To dare is valour madness 'twill not be
He to whom fortune shows thee loses all
If coward like he doth not scorn his fears. 

The souls of all were sad in solemn prayer
Owning the mercy of their Lord Divine
While in His holy presence so benign
The tribute that was due they offered there:
My heart till then was free from every care
Till then my fate had traced an equal line
When lo! some eyes too high and pure for mine
Assaulted all my reason unaware.
The novel vision struck me wholly blind
From strangeness sprang the magic charm displayed
By that soft presence all angelical.
And can I no alleviation find?
Oh! why in births hath Human Nature made
Difference so great and we her children all! 

My gentle spirit! thou who hast departed
So early of this life in discontent
Rest thou there ever in Heaven's firmament
While I live here on earth all broken-hearted
In that Ethereal Seat where thou didst rise
If memory of this life so far consent
Forget not thou my ardent love unspent
Which thou didst read so perfect in mine eyes.
And if perchance aught worthy there appears
In my great cureless anguish for thy death
Oh! pray to God who closed so soon thy years
That He will also close my sorrowing breath
And swiftly call me hence thy form to see
As swiftly he deprived these eyes of thee. 

The eyes where love in chastest fire would glow
Joying to be consumed amidst their light
The face whereon with wondrous lustre bright
The purple rose was blushing o'er the snow
The hair whereof the sun would envious grow
It made his own less golden to the sight
The well-formed body and the hand so white
All to cold earth reduced lies here below!
In tender age a beauty all entire
E'en like a blossom gathered ere its time
Lies withered in the hand of heartless death:
How doth not Love for pity's sake expire?
Ah! not for her who flies to life sublime
But for himself whom night extinguisheth. 

When I behold you Lady! when my eyes
Dwell on the deep enjoyment of your sight
I give my spirit to that one delight
And earth appears to me a Paradise.
And when I hear you speak and see you smile
Full satisfied absorb'd my centr'd mind
Deems all the world's vain hopes and joys the while
As empty as the unsubstantial wind.
Lady! I feel your charms yet dare not raise
To that high theme the unequal song of praise--
A power for that to language was not given
Nor marvel I when I those beauties view
Lady! that He whose power created you
Could form the stars and yonder glorious heaven. 

So sweet the lyre so musical the strain
By which my suit Belovd! is expressed
That hearing them no such indifferent breast
But welcomes Love and his delicious pain
And opes to his innumerable train
Of sweet persuasions lovely mysteries
Brief angers gentle reconcilements sighs
And ardour unabash'd by proud disdain.
Yet when I strive to sing what beauty dwells
Upon thy brow so oft in scorn array'd
My song upon the unworthy lips expires.
It must be loftier verse than mine that tells
Of loveliness like thine. My Muse dismay'd
Folds her weak wing and silently retires. 

Nature withheld Cassandra in the skies
For more adornment a full thousand years
She took their cream of Beauty fairest dies
And shaped and tinted her above all peers:
Meanwhile Love kept her dearly with his wings
And underneath their shadow filled her eyes
With such a richness that the cloudy Kings
Of high Olympus uttered slavish sighs.
When from the Heavens I saw her first descend
My heart took fire and only burning pains
They were my pleasures--they my Life's sad end
Love poured her beauty into my warm veins.

I send you here a wreath of blossoms blown
And woven flowers at sunset gathered
Another dawn had seen them ruined and shed
Loose upon the grass at random strown.
By this their sure example be it known
That all your beauties now in perfect flower
Shall fade as these and wither in an hour.
Flowerlike and brief of days as the flower sown.
Ah time is flying lady--time is flying
Nay 'tis not time that flies but we that go
Who in short space shall be in churchyard lying
And of our loving parley none shall know
Nor any man consider what we were
Be therefore kind my love whilst thou art fair. 

Hide this one night thy crescent kindly Moon
So shall Endymion faithful prove and rest
Loving and unawakened on the breast
So shall no foul enchanter importune
Thy quiet course for now the night is boon
And through the friendly night unseen I fare
Who dread the face of foemen unaware
And watch of hostile spies in the bright noon.
Thou knowest Moon the bitter power of Love
'Tis told how shepherd Pan found ways to move
For little price thy heart and of your grace
Sweet stars be kind to this not alien fire
Because on earth ye did not scorn desire
Bethink ye now ye hold your heavenly place. 

When you are very old at evening
You'll sit and spin beside the fire and say
Humming my songs "Ah well ah well-a-day.
When I was young of me did Ronsard sing."
None of your maidens that doth hear the thing
Albeit with her weary task foredone
But wakens at my name and calls you one
Blest to be held in long remembering.
I shall be low beneath the earth and laid
On sleep a phantom in the myrtle shade
While you beside the fire a grandame gray
My love your pride remember and regret
Ah love me love we may be happy yet
And gather roses while 'tis called to-day. 

My Lady woke upon a morning fair
What time Apollo's chariot takes the skies
And fain to fill with arrows from her eyes
His empty quiver Love was standing there:
I saw two apples that her breast doth bear
None such the close of the Hesperides
Yields
nor hath Venus any such as these
Nor she that had of nursling Mars the care.
Even such a bosom and so fair it was
Pure as the perfect work of Phidias
That sad Andromeda's discomfiture
Left bare when Perseus passed her on a day
And pale as death for fear of death she lay
With breast as marble cold as marble pure. 

Twain that were foes while Mary lived are fled
One laurel-crowned abides in heaven and one
Beneath the earth has fared a fallen sun
light of love among the loveless dead.
The first is chastity that vanquished
The archer Love that held joint empery
With the sweet beauty that made war on me
When laughter of lips with laughing eyes was wed.
Their strife the Fates have closed with stern control
The earth holds her fair body and her soul
An angel with glad angels triumpheth
Love has no more than he can do
desire
Is buried and my heart a faded fire
And for Death's sake I am in love with Death. 

As in the gardens all through May the rose
Lovely and young and fair appareled
Makes sunrise jealous of her rosy red
When dawn upon the dew of dawning glows
Graces and Loves within her breast repose
The woods are faint with the sweet odor shed
Till rains and heavy suns have smitted dead
The languid flower and the loose leaves unclose--
So this the perfect beauty of our days
When earth and heaven were vocal of her praise
The fates have slain and her sweet soul reposes
And tears I bring and sighs and on her tomb
Pour milk and scatter buds of many a bloom
That dead as living she may be with roses. 

When from afar these mountain tops I view
I do but mete mine own distress thereby:
High is their head and my desire is high
Firm is their foot my faith is certain too.
E'en as the winds about their summits blue
From me too breaks betimes the wistful sigh
And as from them the brooks and streamlets hie
So from mine eyes the tears run down anew.
A thousand flocks upon them feed and stray
As many loves within me see the day
And all my heart fore pasture ground divide.
No fruit have they my lot as fruitless is
And 'twixt us now nought diverse is but this--
In them the snows in me the fires abide. 

If any man would know the very cause
Which makes me to forget my speech in rhyme
All the sweet songs I sang in other time--
I'll tell it in a sonnet's simple clause.
I hourly have beheld how good withdraws
To nothing and how evil mounts the while:
Until my heart is gnawed as with a file
Nor aught of this world's worth is what it was.
At last there is no other remedy
But to behold the universal end
And so upon this hope my thoughts are urged:
To whom since truth is sunk and dead at sea
There has no other part or prayer remain'd
Except of seeing the world's self submerged. 

Yea let me praise my lady whom I love:
Likening her unto the lily and rose:
Brighter than morning star her visage glows
She is beneath even as her Saint above
She is as the air in summer which God wove
Of purple and of vermilion glorious
As gold and jewels richer than man knows.
Love's self being love for her must holier prove.
Ever as she walks she hath a sober grace
Making bold men abashed and good men glad
If she delight thee not thy heart must err.
No man dare look on her his thoughts being base:
Nay let me say even more than I have said
-No man could think base thoughts who looked on her. 

He that has grown to wisdom hurries not
But thinks and weighs what Reason bids him do
And after thinking he retains his thought
Until as he conceived the fact ensue.
Let no man to o'erweening pride be wrought
But count his state as Fortune's gift and due.
He is a fool who deems that none has sought
The truth save he alone or knows it true.
Many strange birds are on the air abroad
Nor all are of one flight or of one force
But each after his kind dissimilar:
To each was portioned of the breath of God
Who gave them divers instincts from one source.
Then judge not thou thy fellows what they are. 

So long you wandered on the dusky plain
Where flit the shadows with their endless cry
You reach the shore where all the world goes by
You leave the strife the slavery the pain
But we but we the mortals that remain
In vain stretch hands
for Charon sullenly
Drives us afar we may not come anigh
Till that last mystic obolus we gain.
But you are happy in the quiet place
And with the learned lovers of old days
And with your love you wander evermore
In the dim woods and drink forgetfulness
Of us your friends a weary crowd that press
About the gate or labor at the oar. 

If this our little life is but a day
In the Eternal--if the years in vain
Toil after hours that never come again--
If everything that hath been must decay
Why dreamest thou of joys that pass away
My soul that my sad body doth restrain?
Why of the moment's pleasure art thou fain?
Nay thou hast wings--nay seek another stay.
There is the joy where to each soul aspires
And there the rest that all the world desires
And there is love and peace and gracious mirth
And there in the most highest heavens shalt thou
Behold the Very Beauty whereof now
Thou worshipest the shadow upon earth. 

Those eyes that set my fancy on a fire
Those crispd hairs that hold my heart in chains
Those dainty hands which conquered my desire
That wit which of my thoughts doth hold the reins:
Those eyes for clearness do the stars surpass
Those hairs obscure the brightness of the sun
Those hands more white than ever ivory was
That wit even to the skies hath glory won.
O eyes that pierce our hearts without remorse!
O hands that conquer more than Caesar's force!
O wit that turns huge kingdoms upside down!
Then Love be judge what heart may there withstand
Such eyes such hair such wit and such a hand?


Scorn not the Sonnet! Critic you have frown'd
Mindless of its just honors: with this key
Shakspeare unlocked his heart: the melody
Of this small lute gave ease to Petrarch's wound:
A thousand times this pipe did Tasso sound:
Camens soothed with it an exile's grief
The Sonnet glittered a gay myrtle leaf
Amid the cypress with which Dante crowned
His visionary brow: a glow-worm lamp
It cheered mild Spenser called from Faery-land
To struggle through dark ways: and when a damp
Fell round the path of Milton in his hand
The thing became a trumpet whence he blew
Soul-animating strains--alas too few! 

"When I consider how my light is spent!
Ere half my days in this dark world and wide
And that one talent which is death to hide
Lodged with me useless though my soul were bent
To serve therewith my Maker and present
My true account lest he returning chide:
'Doth God exact day-labor light denied?'
I fondly ask. But patience to prevent
That murmur soon replies--'God does not need
Either man's work or his own gifts: who best
Bear his mild yoke--they serve him best. His state
Is kingly
thousands at his bidding speed
And post o'er land and ocean without rest.
They also serve who only stand and wait.'" 

"Oh how much more doth beauty beauteous seem
By that sweet ornament which truth doth give!
The rose looks fair but fairer we it deem
For that sweet odor which doth in it live.
The canker-blooms have full as deep a dye
As the perfumed tincture of the roses--
Hang on such thorns--and play as wantonly
When summer's breath their masked bud discloses:
But (for their virtue only is their show)
They live unwoo'd and unrespected fade--
Die to themselves. Sweet roses do not so:
Of their stweet deaths are sweetest odors made:
And so of you beauteous and lovely youth
When that shall fade my verse distils your truth." 

"Lisps in numbers and the numbers come." 
"This land we from our fathers had in trust--
And to our children will transmit --or die!
This is our maxim: this our piety!
And God and Nature say that it is just!
That which we would perform in arms we must!
We read the dictate in the infant's eye--
In the wife's smile--and in the placid sky
And at our feet amid the silent dust
Of them that were before us. Sing aloud
OLD SONGS--the precious music of the heart!
Give herds and flocks! your voices to the wind
While we go forth a self-devoted crowd
With weapons in the fearless hand to assert
Our virtue and to vindicate mankind."

"With silent awe I hail the sacred morn
That slowly wakes while all the fields are still!
A soothing calm on every breeze is borne
A graver murmur gurgles firom the rill
And echo answers softer from the hill
And softer sings the linnet from the thorn
The skylark warbles in a tone less shrill.
Hail light serene! hail sacred Sabbath morn!
The rooks float silent by in airy drove
The sun a placid yellow lustre throws
The gales that lately sighed along the grove
Have hushed their downy wings in dead repose
The hovering rack of clouds forgets to move.--
So smiled the day when the first morn arose!" 

From what enchanted Eden came thy leaves
That hide such subtle spirits of perfume?
Did eyes preadamite first see the bloom
Luscious nepenthe of the soul that grieves?
By thee the tired and torpid mind conceives
Fairer than roses brightening life's gloom
Thy protean charm can every form assume
And turn December nights to April eves.
Thy amber-tinted drops bring back to me
Fantastic shapes of great Mongolian towers
Emblazoned banners and the booming gong
I hear the sound of feast and revelry
And smell far sweeter than the sweetest flowers
The kiosks of Pekin fragrant of Oolong
There have been many cats I loved and lost
And most of them were of the mongrel breed
Stray felines have a mighty power to plead
Especially when chilled by snow and frost.
No matter if by cares I am engrossed
Somehow I feel that I should intercede
They seem so much like human folk in need--
Like waifs by winds of hardship roughly tossed.

I think that I should not be satisfied
In heaven with harps and wings and streets of gold
If I should hear by chance a noise outside
Like some lost kitten crying in the cold--
How could Saint Peter think my act a sin
If I should tiptoe out and let it in?
Ah Douglass we have fall'n on evil days
Such days as thou not even thou didst know
When thee the eyes of that harsh long ago
Saw salient at the cross of devious ways
And all the country heard thee with amaze.
Not ended then the passionate ebb and flow
The awful tide that battled to and fro
We ride amid a tempest of dispraise.
Now when the waves of swift dissension swarm
And Honor the strong pilot lieth stark
Oh for thy voice high-sounding o'er the storm
For thy strong arm to guide the shivering bark
The blast-defying power of thy form
To give us comfort through the lonely dark.

Slow moves the pageant of a climbing race
Their footsteps drag far far below the height
And unprevailing by their utmost might
Seem faltering downward from each hard won place.
No strange swift-sprung exception we trace
A devious way thro' dim uncertain light--
Our hope through the long vistaed years a sight
Of that our Captain's soul sees face to face.
Who faithless faltering that the road is steep
Now raiseth up his drear insistent cry?
Who stoppeth here to spend a while in sleep
Or curseth that the storm obscures the sky?
Heed not the darkness round you dull and deep
The clouds grow thickest when the summit's nigh. 

Why was it that the thunder voice of Fate
Should call thee studious from the classic groves
Where calm-eyed Pallas with still footstep roves
And charge thee seek the turmoil of the state?
What bade thee hear the voice and rise elate
Leave home and kindred and thy spicy loaves
To lead th' unlettered and despised droves
To manhood's home and thunder at the gate?

Far better the slow blaze of Learning's light
The cool and quiet of her dearer fane
Than this hot terror of a hopeless fight
This cold endurance of the final pain--
Since thou and those who with thee died for right
Have died the Present teaches but in vain!
Long long ago when all the glittering earth
Was heaven itself when drunkards in the street
Were like mazed kings shaking at giving birth
To acts of war that sickle men like wheat

When the white clover opened Paradise
And God lived in a cottage up the brook
Beauty you lifted up my sleeping eyes
And filled my heart with longing with a look
And all the day I searched but could not find
The beautiful dark-eyed who touched me there
Delight in her made trouble in my mind
She was within all Naure everywhere

Night came again but now I could not sleep.
The owls were watching in the yew the mice
Gnawed at the wainscot the mid dark was deep
The death-watch knocked the dead man's summons thrice.
The cats upon the pointed housetops peered
About the chimneys with lit eyes which saw
Things in the darkness moving which they feared.
The midnight filled the quiet house with awe.

So creeping down the stair I drew the bolt
And passed into the darkness and I knew
That Beauty was brought near by my revolt.
Beauty was in the moonlight in the dew
But more within myself whose venturous tread
Walked the dark house where death ticks called the dead.
Even after all these years there comes the dream
Of lovelier life than this in some new earth
In the full summer of that unearthly gleam
Which lights the spirit when the brain gives birth

Of a perfected I in happy hours
Treading above the sea that trembles there
A path through thickets of immortal flowers
That only grow where sorrows never were.
And at a turn of coming face to face
With Beauty's self that Beauty I have sought
In women's hearts in friends in many a place
In barren hours passed at grips with thought
Beauty of woman comrade earth and sea
Incarnate thought come face to face with me.

If I could come again to that dear place
Where once I came where Beauty lived and moved
Where by the sea I saw her face to face
That soul alive by which the world has loved
If as I stood at gaze among the leaves
She would appear again as once before
While the red herdsman gathered up his sheaves
And brimming waters trembled up the shore
If as I gazed her Beauty that was dumb
In that old time before I learned to speak
Would lean to me and revelation come
Words to the lips and color to the cheek

Men are made human by the mighty fall
The mighty passion led to these remain.
The despot at the last assaulted wall
By long disaster is made man again
The faithful fool who follows the torn flag
The woman marching by the beaten man
Make with their truth atonement for the brag
And earn a pity for the too proud plan.

For in disaster in the ruined will
In the soiled shreds of what the brain conceived
Something above the wreck is steady still
Bright above all that cannot be retrieved
Grandeur of soul a touching of the star
That good days cover but by which we are.
Here in the self is all that man can know
Of Beauty all the wonder all the power
All the unearthly color all the glow
Here in the self which withers like a flower
Here in the self which fades as hours pass
And droops and dies and rots and is forgotten
Sooner by ages than the mirroring glass
In which it sees its glory still unrotten.

Here in the flesh within the flesh behind
Swift in the blood and throbbing on the bone
Beauty herself the universal mind
Eternal April wandering alone.
The god the holy ghost the atoning lord
Here in the flesh the never yet explored.
Flesh I have knocked at many a dusty door
Gone down full many a windy midnight lane
Probed in old walls and felt along the floor
Pressed in blind hope the lighted window-pane.

But useless all though sometimes when the moon
Was full in heaven and the sea was full
Along my body's alleys came a tune
Played in the tavern by the Beautiful.
Then for an instant I have felt at point
To find and seize her whosoever she be
Whether some saint whose glory does not anoint
Those whom she loves or but a part of me
Or something that the things not understood
Make for their uses out of flesh and blood.

But all has passed the tune has died away
The glamour gone the glory, is it chance?
Is the unfeeling mud stabbed by a ray
Cast by an unseen splendor's great advance?
Or does the glory gather crumb by crumb
Unseen within as coral islands rise
Till suddenly the apparitions come
Above the surface looking at the skies?
Or does sweet Beauty dwell in lovely things
Scattering the holy hintings of her name
In women in dear friends in flowers in springs
In the brook's voice for us to catch the same?

Or is it we who are Beauty, we who ask
We by whose gleams the world fulfils its task?
These myriad days these many thousand hours
A man's long life so choked with dusty things
How little perfect poise with perfect powers
Joy at the heart and Beauty at the springs.
One hour or two or three in long years scattered
Sparks from a smithy that have fired a thatch
Are all that life has given and all that mattered
The rest all heaving at a moveless latch.
For these so many years of useless toil
Despair endeavor and again despair
Sweat that the base machine may have its oil
Idle delight to tempt one everywhere.

A life upon the cross. To make amends
Three flaming memories that the deathbed ends.
There on the darkened deathbed dies the brain
That flared three several times in seventy years
It cannot lift the silly hand again
Nor speak nor sing it neither sees nor hears.
And muffled mourners put it in the ground
And then go home and in the earth it lies
Too dark for vision and too deep for sound
The million cells that made a good man wise.

Yet for a few short years and influence stirs
A sense or wraith or essence of him dead
Which makes insensate things its ministers
To those beloved his spirit's daily bread
Then that too fades in book or deed a spark
Lingers then that too fades then all is dark.

So in the empty sky the stars appear
Are bright in heaven marching through the sky
Spinning their planets each one to his year
Tossing their fiery hair until they die
Then in the tower afar the watcher sees
The sun that burned less noble than it was
Less noble still until by dim degrees
No spark of him is specklike in his glass.
Ten blind and dark in heaven the sun proceeds
Vast dead and hideous knocking on his moons
Till crashing on his like creation breeds
Striking such life a constellation swoons.

From dead things striking fire a new sun springs
New fire new life new planets with new wings.
It may be so with us that in the dark
When we have done with Time and wander Space
Some meeting of the blind may strike a spark
And to Death's empty mansion give a grace.
It may be that the loosened soul may find
Some new delight of living without limbs
Bodiless joy of flesh-untrammelled mind
Peace like a sky where starlike spirit swims.

It may be that the million cells of sense
Loosed from their seventy years' adhesion pass
Each to some joy of changed experience
Weight in the earth or glory in the grass
It may be that we cease we cannot tell.
Even if we cease life is a miracle.

Man has his unseen friend his unseen twin
His straitened spirit's possibility
The palace unexplored he thinks an inn
The glorious garden which he wanders by.
It is beside us while we clutch at clay
To daub ourselves that we may never see.
Like the lame donkey lured by moving hay
We chase the shade but let the real be.
Yet when confusion in our heaven brings stress
We thrust on that unseen get stature from it
Cast to the devil's challenge the man's yes
And stream our fiery hour like a comet
And know for that fierce hour a friend behind
With sword and shield the second to the mind.
What am I Life? A thing of watery salt
Held in cohesion by unresting cells
Which work they know not why which never halt
Myself unwitting where their Master dwells.
I do not bid them yet they toil they spin
A world which uses me as I use them
Nor do I know which end or which begin
Nor which to praise which pamper which condemn.
So like a marvel in a marvel set
I answer to the vast as wave by wave
The sea of air goes over dry or wet
Or the full moon comes swimming from her cave
Or the great sun comes north this myriad I
Tingles not knowing how yet wondering why.
If I could get within this changing I
This ever altering thing which yet persists
Keeping the features it is reckoned by
While each component atom breaks or twists
If wandering past strange groups of shifting forms
Cells at their hidden marvels hard at work
Pale from much toil or red from sudden storms
I might attain to where the Rulers lurk.
If pressing past the guards in those grey gates
The brain's most folded intertwisted shell
I might attain to that which alters fates
The King the supreme self the Master Cell
Then on Man's earthly peak I might behold
The unearthly self beyond unguessed untold.
What is this atom which contains the whole
This miracle which needs adjuncts so strange
This which imagined God and is the soul
The steady star persisting amid change?
What waste that smallness of such power should need
Such clumsy tools so easy to destroy
Such wasteful servants difficult to feed
Such indirect dark avenues to joy.
Why if its business is not mainly earth
Should it demand such heavy chains to sense?
A heavenly thing demands a swifter birth
A quicker hand to act intelligence.
An earthly thing were better like the rose
At peace with clay from which its beauty grows.
Ah we are neither heaven nor earth but men
Something that uses and despises both
That takes its earth's contentment in the pen
Then sees the world's injustice and is wroth
And flinging off youth's happy promise flies
Up to some breach despising earthly things
And in contempt of hell and heaven dies
Rather than bear some yoke of priests or kings.
Our joys are not of heaven nor earth but man's
A woman's beauty or a child's delight
The trembling blood when the discoverer scans
The sought-for world the guessed-at satellite
The ringing scene the stone at point to blush
For unborn men to look at and say "Hush."
Roses are beauty but I never see
Those blood drops from the burning heart of June
Glowing like thought upon the living tree
Without a pity that they die so soon
Die into petals like those roses old
Those women who were summer in men's hearts
Before the smile upon the Sphinx was cold
Or sand had hid the Syrian and his arts.
O myriad dust of beauty that lies thick
Under our feet that not a single grain
But stirred and moved in beauty and was quick
For one brief moon and died nor lived again
But when the moon rose lay upon the grass
Pasture to living beauty life that was.
Over the church's door they moved a stone
And there unguessed forgotten mortared up
Lay the priest's cell where he had lived alone
There was his ashy hearth his drinking cup
There was the window whence he saw the host
The god whose beauty quickened bread and wine
The skeleton of a religion lost
The ghostless bones of what had been divine.
O many a time the dusty masons come
Knocking their trowels in the stony brain
To cells where perished priests had once a home
Or where devout brows pressed the window pane
Watching the thing made God the god whose bones
Bind underground our soul's foundation stones.
I never see the red rose crown the year
Nor feel the young grass underneath my tread
Without the thought "This living beauty here
Is earth's remembrance of a beauty dead.
Surely where all this glory is displayed
Love has been quick like fire to high ends
Here in this grass an altar has been made
For some white joy some sacrifice of friends
Here where I stand some leap of human brains
Has touched immortal things and left its trace
The earth is happy here the gleam remains
Beauty is here the spirit of the place
I touch the faith which nothing can destroy
The earth the living church of ancient joy."
Out of the clouds come torrents from the earth
Fire and quakings from the shrieking air
Tempests that harry half the planet's girth.
Death's unseen seeds are scattered everywhere.
Yet in his iron cage the mind of man
Measures and braves the terrors of all these
The blindest fury and the subtlest plan
He turns or tames or shows in their degrees.
Yet it himself are forces of like power
Untamed unreckoned
seeds that brain to brain
Pass across oceans bringing thought to flower
New worlds new selves where he can live again
Eternal beauty's everlasting rose
Which casts this world as shadow as it goes.
O little self within whose smallness lies
All that man was and is and will become
Atom unseen that comprehends the skies
And tells the tracks by which the planets roam.
That without moving knows the joys of wings
The tiger's strength the eagle's secrecy
And in the hovel can consort with kings
Or clothe a god with his own mystery.
O with what darkness do we cloak thy light
What dusty folly gather thee for food
Thou who alone art knowledge and delight
The heavenly bread the beautiful the good.
O living self O god O morning star
Give us thy light forgive us what we are.
I went into the fields but you were there
Waiting for me so all the summer flowers
Were only glimpses of your starry powers
Beautiful and inspired dust they were.
I went down by the waters and a bird
Sang with your voice in all the unknown tones
Of all that self of you I have not heard
So that my being felt you to the bones.
I went into my house and shut the door
To be alone but you were there with me
All beauty in a little room may be
Though the roof lean and muddy be the floor.
Then in my bed I bound my tired eyes
To make a darkness for my weary brain
But like a presence you were there again
Being and real beautiful and wise
So that I could not sleep and cried aloud
"You strange grave thing what is it you would say?"
The redness of your dear lips dimmed to grey
The waters ebbed the moon hid in a cloud.
There are two forms of life of which one moves
Seeing its meat in many forms of Death
On scales on wings on all the myriad hooves
Which stamp earth's exultation in quick breath.
It rustles through the reeds in shivering fowl
Cries over moors in curlew glitters green
In the lynx' eye is fearful in the howl
Of winter-bitten wolves whose flanks are lean.
It takes dumb joy in cattle it is fierce
It torts the tiger's loin the eagle's wings
Its tools are claws to smite and teeth to pierce
Arms to destroy and coils and poison stings
Wherever earth is quick and life runs red
Its mark is death its meat is something dead.
How many ways how many different times
The tiger Mind has clutched at what it sought
Only to prove supposd virtues crimes
The imagined godhead but a form of thought.
How many restless brains have wrought and schemed
Padding their cage or built or brought to law
Made in outlasting brass the something dreamed
Only to prove themselves the things of awe
Yet in the happy moment's lightning blink
Comes scent or track or trace the game goes by
Some leopard thought is pawing at the brink
Chaos below and up above the sky.
Then the keen nostrils scent about about
To prove the Thing Within a Thing Without.
The other form of Living does not stir
Where the seed chances there it roots and grows
To suck what makes the lily or the fir
Out of the earth and from the air that blows.
Great power of Will that little thing the seed
Has all alone in earth to plan the tree
And though the mud oppresses to succeed
And put out branches where the birds may be.
Then the wind blows it but the bending boughs
Exult like billows and their million green
Drink the all-living sunlight in carouse
Like dainty harts where forest wells are clean.
While it the central plant which looks o'er miles
Draws milk from the earth's breast and sways and smiles.
Is there a great green commonwealth of Thought
Which ranks the yearly pageant and decides
How Summer's royal progress shall be wrought
By secret stir which in each plant abides?
Does rocking daffodil consent that she
The snowdrop of wet winters shall be first?
Does spotted cowslip with the grass agree
To hold her pride before the rattle burst?
And in the hedge what quick agreement goes
When hawthorn blossoms redden to decay
That Summer's pride shall come the Summer's rose
Before the flower be on the bramble spray?
Or is it as with us unresting strife
And each consent a lucky gasp for life?
Beauty let be
I cannot see your face
I shall not know you now nor touch your feet
Only within me tremble to your grace
Tasting this crumb vouchsafed which is so sweet.
Even when the full-leaved Summer bore no fruit
You give me this this apple of man's tree
This planet sings when other spheres were mute
This light begins when darkness covered me.
Now though I know that I shall never know
All through my fault nor blazon with my pen
That path prepared where only I could go
Still I have this not given to other men.
Beauty this grace this spring this given bread
This life this dawn this wakening from the dead.
Here where we stood together we three men
Before the war had swept us to the East
Three thousand miles away I stand again
And hear the bells and breathe and go to feast.
We trod the same path to the self-same place
Yet here I stand having beheld their graves
Skyros whose shadows the great seas erase
And Seddul Bahr that ever more blood craves.
So since we communed here our bones have been
Nearer perhaps than they again will be
Earth and the world-wide battle lie between
Death lies between and friend-destroying sea.
Yet here a year ago we talked and stood
As I stand now with pulses beating blood.
I saw her like a shadow on the sky
In the last light a blur upon the sea
Then the gale's darkness put the shadow by
But from one grave that island talked to me
And in the midnight in the breaking storm
I saw its blackness and a blinking light
And thought "So death obscures your gentle form
So memory strives to make the darkness bright
And in that heap of rocks your body lies
Part of the island till the planet ends
My gentle comrade beautiful and wise
Part of this crag this bitter surge offends
While I who pass a little obscure thing
War with this force and breathe and am its king."
Not that the stars are all gone mad in heaven
Plucking the unseen reins upon men's souls
Not that the law that bound the planets seven
Is discord now
man probes for new controls.
He bends no longer to the circling stars
New moon and full moon and the living sun
Love-making Venus Jove and bloody Mars
Pass from their thrones their rule of him is done.
And paler gods made liker men are past
Like their sick eras to their funeral urns
They cannot stand the fire blown by the blast
In which man's soul that measures heaven burns.
Man in his cage of many millioned pain
Burns all to ash to prove if God remain.
There is no God as I was taught in youth
Though each according to his stature builds
Some covered shrine for what he thinks the truth
Which day by day his reddest heart-blood gilds.
There is no God
but death the clasping sea
In which we move like fish deep over deep
Made of men's souls that bodies have set free
Floods to a Justice though it seems asleep.
There is no God but still behind the veil
The hurt thing works out of its agony.
Still like a touching of a brimming Grail
Return the pennies given to passers by.
There is no God but we who breathe the air
Are God ourselves and touch God everywhere.
Beauty retires
the blood out of the earth
Shrinks the stalk dries lifeless November still
Drops the brown husk of April's greenest birth.
Through the thinned beech clump I can see the hill.
So withers man and though his life renews
In Aprils of the soul an autumn comes
Which gives an end not respite to the thews
That bore his soul through the world's martyrdoms.
Then all the beauty will be out of mind
Part of man's store that lies outside his brain.
Touch to the dead and vision to the blind
Drink in the desert bread eternal grain
Part of the untilled field that beauty sows
With flowers untold where quickened spirit goes.
Wherever beauty has been quick in clay
Some effluence of it lives a spirit dwells
Beauty that death can never take away
Mixed with the air that shakes the flower bells
So that by waters where the apples fall
Or in lone glens or valleys full of flowers
Or in the streets where bloody tidings call
The haunting waits the mood that makes it ours.
Then at a turn a word an act a thought
Such difference comes the spirit apprehends
That place's glory for where beauty fought
Under the veil the glory never ends
But the still grass the leaves the trembling flower
Keep through dead time that everlasting hour.
You are more beautiful than women are
Wiser than men stronger than ribbd death
Juster than Time more constant than the star
Dearer than love more intimate than breath
Having all art all science all control
Over the still unsmithied even as Time
Cradles the generations of man's soul
You are the light to guide the way to climb.
So having followed beauty having bowed
To wisdom and to death to law to power
I like a blind man stumble from the crowd
Into the darkness of a deeper hour
Where in the lonely silence I may wait
The prayed-for gleam--your hand upon the gate.
Out of the barracks to the castle yard
Those Roman soldiers came buckling their gear
The word was passed that they were prison guard
The sergeant proved their dressing with his spear.
Then as the prisoner came a wretch who bled
Holding a cross those nearest cursed his soul:
He might have died some other time they said
Not at high noon: the sergeant called the roll.
Then sloping spears the files passed from the court
Into the alleys thrusting back the crowd
They cursed the bleeding man for stepping short
The drums beat time: the sergeant hummed aloud
The rabble closed behind: the soldiers cursed
The prisoner's soul the flies their packs their thirst.
Not for the anguish suffered is the slur
Not for the women's mocks the taunts of men
No but because you never welcomed her
Her of whose beauty I am only the pen.
There was a dog dog-minded with dog's eyes
Damned by a dog's brute-nature to be true
Something within her made his spirit wise
He licked her hand he knew her not so you.
When all adulterate beauty has gone by
When all inanimate matter has gone down
We will arise and walk that dog and I
The only two who knew her in the town
We'll range the pleasant mountains side by side
Seeking the blood-stained flowers where Christs have died.
Beauty was with me once but now grown old
I cannot hear nor see her: thus a king
In the high turret kept him from the cold
Over the fire with his magic ring
Which as he wrought made pictures come and go
Of men and times past present and to be
Now like a smoke now flame-like now a glow
Now dead now bright but always fantasy.
While on the stair without a faithful slave
Stabbed to the death crawled bleeding whispering "Sir
They come to kill you fly: I come to save
O you great gods have pity let him hear."
Then with his last strength tapped and muttered "Sire"
While the king smiled and drowsed above the fire.
So beauty comes so with a failing hand
She knocks and cries and fails to make me hear
She who tells futures in the falling sand
And still by signs makes hidden meanings clear
She who behind this many peopled smoke
Moves in the light and struggles to direct
Through the deaf ear and by the baffled stroke
The wicked man the honored architect.
Yet at a dawn before the birds begin
In dreams as the horse stamps and the hound stirs
Sleep slips the bolt and beauty enters in
Crying aloud those hurried words of hers
And I awake and in the birded dawn
Know her for Queen and own myself a pawn.
If Beauty be at all if beyond sense
There be a wisdom piercing into brains
Why should the glory wait on impotence
Biding its time till blood is in the veins?
There is no beauty but when thought is quick
Out of the noisy sickroom of ourselves
Some flattery comes to try to cheat the sick
Some drowsy drug is groped for on the shelves
And for the rest we play upon a scene
Beautiful with the blood of living things
We move and speak and wonder and have been
Upon the dust as dust not queens and kings
We know no beauty nor does beauty care
For us this dust that men make everywhere.
Each greedy self by consecrating lust
Desire pricking into sacrifice
Adds in his way some glory to the dust
Brings to the light some haze of Paradise
Hungers and thirsts for beauty
like the hound
Snaps it to eat alone
in secret keeps
His miser's patch of consecrated ground
Where beauty's coins are dug down to the deeps.
So when disturbing death digs up our lives
Some little gleam among the broken soil
May witness for us as the shovel rives
The dirty heap of all our tiny toil
Some gleam of you may make the digger hold
Touched for an instant with the thought of gold.
Time being an instant in eternity
Beauty above man's million years must see
The heaped corrupted mass that had to die
The husk of man that set the glitter free
Now from those million bodies in the dark
Forgotten rotten part of fields or roads
The million gleam united makes a spark
Which Beauty sees among her star abodes.
And from the bodies comes a sigh "Alas
We hated fought and killed as separate men
Now all is merged and we are in the grass
Our efforts merged would we had known it then.
All our lives' battle all our spirits' dream
Nought in themselves a clash which made a gleam."
You will remember me in days to come
With love or pride or pity or contempt
So will my friends (not many friends yet some)
When this my life will be a dream out-dreamt
And one remembering friendship by the fire
And one remembering love time in the dark
And one remembering unfulfilled desire
Will sigh perhaps yet be beside the mark
For this my body with its wandering ghost
Is nothing solely but an empty grange
Dark in a night that owls inhabit most
Yet when the king rides by there comes a change
The windows gleam the cresset's fiery hair
Blasts the blown branch and beauty lodges there.
They took the bloody body from the cross
They laid it in its niche and rolled the stone.
One said "Our blessed Master" one "His loss
Ends us companions we are left alone."
And one "I thought that Pilate would acquit
Right to the last
" and one "The sergeant took
The trenching mall and drove the nails with it."
One who was weeping went apart and shook.
Then one "He promised that in three short days
He would return oh God
but He is dead."
And one "What was it that He meant to raise?
The Temple? No? What was it that He said?
He said that He would build? That He would rise?"
"No" answered one "but come from Paradise.
"Come to us fiery with the saints of God
To judge the world and take His power and reign."
Then one. "This was the very road we trod
That April day would it could come again
The day they flung the flowers." "Let be" said one
"He was a lovely soul but what He meant
Passes our wit for none among us none
Had brains enough to fathom His intent.
His mother did not nor could one of us
But while He spoke I felt I understood."
And one "He knew that it would finish thus.
Let His thought be I know that He was good.
There is the orchard see the very same
Where we were sleeping when the soldiers came."
So from the cruel cross they buried God
So in their desolation as they went
They dug him deeper with each step they trod
Their lightless minds distorting what he meant.
Lamenting Him their leader who had died
They heaped the stones they rolled the heavy door
They said "Our glory has been crucified
Unless He rise our glory will be o'er"
While in the grave the spirit left the corpse
Broken by torture slowly line by line
And saw the dawn come on the eastern thorpes
And shook his wings and sang in the divine
Crying "I told the truth even unto death
Though I was earth and now am only breath."
If all be governed by the moving stars
If passing planets bring events to be
Searing the face of Time with bloody scars
Drawing men's souls even as the moon the sea
If as they pass they make a current pass
Across man's life and heap it to a tide
We are but pawns ignobler than the grass
Cropped by the beast and crunched and tossed aside.
Is all this beauty that does inhabit heaven
Trail of a planet's fire? Is all this lust
A chymic means by warring stars contriven
To bring the violets out of Csar's dust?
Better be grass or in some hedge unknown
The spilling rose whose beauty is its own.
In emptiest furthest heaven where no stars are
Perhaps some planet of our master sun
Still rolls an unguessed orbit round its star
Unthought unseen unknown of any one.
Roving dead space according to its law
Casting our light on burnt-out suns and blind
Singing in the frozen void its word of awe
One wandering thought in all that idiot mind.
And in some span of many a thousand year
Passing through heaven its influence may arouse
Beauty unguessed in those who habit here
And men may rise with glory on their brows
And feel new life like fire and see the old
Fall from them dead the bronze's broken mould.
Perhaps in chasms of the wasted past
That planet wandered within hail of ours
And plucked men's souls to loveliness and cast
The old that was away like husks of flowers
And made them stand erect and bade them build
Nobler than hovels plaited in the mire
Gave them an altar and a god to gild
Bridled the brooks for them and fettered fire
And in another coming forged the steel
Which on life's scarlet wax forever set
Longing for beauty bitten as a seal
That blood not clogs nor centuries forget
That built Atlantis and in time will raise
That grander thing whose image haunts our days.
For like an outcast from the city I
Wander the desert strewn with traveller's bones
Having no comrade but the starry sky
Where the tuned planets ride their floating thrones.
I pass old ruins where the kings caroused
In cups long shards from vines long since decayed
I tread the broken brick where queens were housed
In beauty's time ere beauty was betrayed
And in the ceaseless pitting of the sand
On monolith and pyle I see the dawn
Making those skeletons of beauty grand
By fire that comes as darkness is withdrawn
And in that fire the art of men to come
Shines with such glow I bless my martyrdom.
Death lies in wait for you you wild thing in the wood
Shy-footed beauty dear half-seen half understood
Glimpsed in the beech wood dim and in the dropping fir
Shy like a fawn and sweet and beauty's minister.
Glimpsed as in flying clouds by night the little moon
A wonder a delight a paleness passing soon.
Only a moment held only an hour seen
Only an instant known in all that life has been
One instant in the sand to drink that gush of grace
The beauty of your way the marvel of your face.
Death lies in wait for you but few short hours he gives
I perish even as you by whom all spirit lives
Come to me spirit come and fill my hour of breath
With hours of life in life that pay no toll to death.
What are we given what do we take away?
Five little senses startling with delight
That dull to death and perish into clay
And pass from human memory as from sight.
So the new penny glittering from the mint
Bears the king's head awhile but Time effaces
The head the date the seated queen the print
Even as a brook the stone in pebbly places.
We bear the stamp are current and are prized
Hoarded or spent the while the mintage passes
Then like light money challenged or despised
We join the heap of dross which Time amasses
Erased uncurrent discs no more to range
The clanging counters in the great exchange.
They called that broken hedge The Haunted Gate.
Strange fires (they said) burnt there at moonless times
Evil was there men never went there late
The darkness there was quick with threatened crimes.
And then one digging in that bloodied clay
Found but a foot below a rotted chest.
Coins of the Romans tray on rusted tray
Hurriedly heaped there by a digger prest.
So that one knew how centuries before
Some Roman flying from the sack by night
Digging in terror there to hide his store
Sweating his pick by windy lantern light
Had stamped his anguish on that place's soul
So that it knew and could rehearse the whole.
Go spend your penny Beauty when you will
In the grave's darkness let the stamp be lost.
The water still will bubble from the hill
And April quick the meadows with her ghost
Over the grass the daffodils will shiver
The primroses with their pale beauty abound
The blackbird be a lover and make quiver
With his glad singing the great soul of the ground
So that if the body rot it will not matter
Up in the earth the great game will go on
The coming of Spring and the running of the water
And the young things glad of the womb's darkness gone
And the joy we felt will be a part of the glory
In the lover's kiss that makes the old couple's story.
Not for your human beauty nor the power
To shake me by your voice or by your touch
Summer must have its rose the rose must flower
Beauty burn deep I do not yield to such.
No but because your beauty where it falls
Lays bare the spirits in the crowded streets
Shatters the lock destroys the castle walls
breaks down the bars till friend with comrade meets
So that I wander brains where beauty dwelled
In long dead time and see again the rose
By long dead men for living beauty held
That Death's knife spares and Winter with his snows
And know it bloodied by that pulse of birth
Which greens the grass in Aprils upon earth.
The little robin hopping in the wood
Draws friendship from you the rapt nightingale
Making the night a marvellous solitude
Only of you to darkness tells the tale.
Kingfishers are but jewels on your dress
Dun deer that rove and timid rabbits shy
Are but the hintings of your gentleness.
Upon your wings the eagle climbs the sky.
Fish that are shadows in the water pass
With mystery from you the purpled moth
Dust from your kirtle on his broidery has
Out of your bounty every beauty flowth
For you are all all fire all living form
Marvel in man and glory in the worm.
Though in life's streets the tempting shops have lured
Because all beauty howsoever base
Is vision of you marred I have endured
Tempted or fall'n to look upon your face.
Now through the grinning death's head in the paint
Within the tavern-song hid in the wine
In many kinded man emperor and saint
I see you pass you breath of the divine.
I see you pass as centuries ago
The long dead men with passionate spirit saw
O brother man whom spirit habits so
Through your red sorrows Beauty keeps her law
Beauty herself who takes your dying hand
To leave through time the Memnon in the sand.
When all these million cells that are my slaves
Fall from my pourried ribs and leave me lone
A living speck among a world of graves
What shall I be that spot in the unknown?
A glow-worm in a night that floats the sun?
Or deathless dust feeling the passer's foot?
An eye undying mourning things undone?
Or seed for quickening free from prisoning fruit?
Or an eternal jewel on your robe
Caught to your heart one with the April fire
That made me yours as man upon the globe
One with the Spring a breath in all desire
One with the primrose present in all joy?
Or pash that rots which pismires can destroy?
Let that which is to come be as it may
Darkness extinction justice life intense
The flies are happy in the summer day
Flies will be happy many summers hence.
Time with his antique breeds that built the Sphynx
Time with her men to come whose wings will tower
Poured and will pour not as the wise man thinks
But with blind force to each his little hour.
And when the hour has struck comes death or change
Which whether good or ill we cannot tell
But the blind planet will wander through her range
Bearing men like us who will serve as well.
The sun will rise the winds that ever move
Will blow our dust that once were men in love.
