1.
Love has obstacles enough, they say:
Why add to them the obstacle of race?
Two backgrounds so diverse can't share one space.
Love can't keep the world's harsh truths at bay.
Ah, love! Let such trite wisdom go its way!
All life is difficult yet full of grace.
All men and women share the same small place.
Nor should we out of fear our love betray.
Love is to daily life a vein of gold
Running through the rock like liquid fire,
Making ordinary moments glow.
May we treasure it as we grow old:
The breath that does our dreary clay inspire,
The touch that transforms everything we know.

2.
There are no bars to our embrace,
When we allow our heads to make our choices
We did the opposite, though not by art,
You are the whole, of which I am a part,
Without a voice or face.
We fell in love the best way, sight unseen,
But while you're away,
To gaze upon your face.
Pure gain, with no rough edges to remove.
Real as well the hopes that time will prove.
It holds the triumph of a secured marriage;
But pleasure is ignited by compassion.

3.
I need it still, and yet I still need you.
I am afraid to love, and yet I love you.
I miss you and I love you, even though
When you're away I miss you so
The ecstasy of loving so completely
Love allows the rivers to run freely,
Not every cloud has a silver lining.
Be grateful my sun is brightly shining

4.
Who dreamed that beauty passes like a dream?
For these red lips, with all their mournful pride,
Mournful that no new wonder may betide,
Troy passed away in one high funeral gleam,
And Usna's children died.
We and the labouring world are passing by:
Amid men's souls, that waver and give place
Like the pale waters in their wintry race,
Under the passing stars, foam of the sky,
Lives on this lonely face.
Bow down, archangels, in your dim abode:
Before you were, or any hearts to beat,
Weary and kind one lingered by His seat;
He made the world to be a grassy road
Before her wandering feet.

5.
Sense how joy feels in vivid terms,
Trust sparkles grand the pleasant fill;
Ask love to heal with ample germs,
Reap precious trends in fond goodwill;
Take time to laugh with simple flair.
Work with fine poise in spicy cheer,
Ink words enough in calm affairs;
Toss happy voice with passion here,
Heed sounds that come to echo choice.
Hurl song and dance with feisty ease,
Exult in sums despite stray noise;
Allow deep trance to anchor bliss,
Rise to the dream of lovely fest,
Thrill that rich theme in journey quest.

6.
The flesh I need when I must have my way,
Love can't keep the world's harsh truths at bay.
Our love is torn by miles, not by choice.
Yet roils over what you leave behind.
We are more lucky than we seem,
But an heroic dream.
You need but lift a pearl-pale hand,
When so much that I do you cannot stand.

7.
Your heart broke when I said I had to leave you
To serve our country somewhere far away.
But every day tells me how much I love you,
And how I'll mend it once I'm home to stay.
For life is but a dream, and we the dreamers,
Making what we will of what we are.
When gates clang shut, we are our own redeemers,
As love leaves for us a door ajar.
So dream with me these empty months of sorrow
As we find ways to be together still.
No longing can be brighter than tomorrow,
Nor dream less certain than our strength of will.

8.
After all the sacrifice,
When, the ears being deafened, the sight of the eyes blind
Feeling empty, exhausted, used up and drained
To force the flesh to yield the fantasy.
I cannot think how I can be
Half lion, half child, is at peace.
And though I would have hushed the crowd
Till the wilderness cried aloud,
Alone with just your thoughts and dreams,
Though nothing troubles the great streams
Each needing, needed, leaned on, leaning,
In you I have a harvest past all gleaning

9.
Take it as a given that I love you,
And let the conversation go from there.
There isn't much I wouldn't do to please you,
So tell me what to do to make you care.
Tell me what it is that turns you from me,
And why you cannot cherish who I am,
And why you must insist that you still love me
When so much that I do you cannot stand.
The truth is not at all what we imagine,
Reaching regions deeper than our thoughts.
Needs are rarely troubled by opinions,
And love gives no advice unless it's sought.
So plunge into yourself as in a sea,
Then tell me truly what you want of me.

10.
Perhaps it's far too early to reveal
A feeling not yet ready to be love.
The light of dawn, though hesitant, is real;
Real as well the hopes that time will prove.
I dance across the meadows of my heart
Carrying doubts that mingle joy and fear.
I know I'm half myself when we're apart;
All I want is with me when you're near.
